<docx id="file38427346" filename="Financial:tech articles XML - Orazio.docx" parent_folder="upload">
<doc date="2026-01-14" author="Arsalan Shahla" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="How Iran Sanctions and a Currency Crash Triggered Mass Protests">

A slow-burning economic crisis in Iran reached a tipping point in late December after a slump in the national currency to a record low made even basic goods unaffordable for much of the population.
Shopkeepers and merchants were among the first to react, taking to the streets of the capital Tehran to vent their frustration at a government they accused of mismanaging the economy. By early January, the unrest had grown into a nationwide revolt involving students, workers and other groups calling not just for an improvement in living standards but an end to the theocratic regime of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
The protests pose the biggest challenge to the Islamic Republic since it was founded in 1979. Thousands of people have been killed and arrested as security forces try to crush the demonstrations.
What sparked the protests?
Iran buys many essential goods from abroad, including wheat, cooking oil and pharmaceutical ingredients. The slump in the value of the rial has made those imports costlier for merchants, who have raised their prices in response, making a range of basic items prohibitively expensive. Five years of drought have also hit local food production, leaving the country even more dependent on expensive imports.
Inflation was expected to average around 42% in 2025, accelerating from 33% in 2024, according to the International Monetary Fund. Many Iranians were already struggling to feed themselves before the latest price surge. Local media reported in 2022 that half the population was consuming less than the standard 2,100 daily calories.
There's also widespread anger over chronic pollution, gas and electricity shortages, and mismanagement of the country's natural resources. The government adjusted its mechanism of fuel subsidies in December, increasing pump prices for gasoline and heaping additional costs on households and businesses.
Why has the currency been weakening?
The rial has been under pressure for years due to Western sanctions and systemic corruption that's undermined confidence in the economy. The rial slumped by around 45% against the US dollar in 2025, according to Bonbast.com, as Iranians converted savings into foreign currencies, gold or property.
Iran's economy has also been hit by falling oil prices. Brent crude, the global benchmark, declined by 18% in 2025 to around $60 a barrel — far below the $165 needed for Iran's government to break even on its budget, according to a May estimate from the IMF.
The currency turmoil has been exacerbated by a system of tiered exchange rates, under which the government subsidizes imports of some goods for certain entities. The system has fueled corruption, causing resentment among Iranians.
Why have Iranians been getting poorer?
While Iran sits on huge oil reserves, the crude is off-limits to most foreign buyers due to the sanctions imposed by the US and its allies. The penalties were first imposed in response to the seizure of the US embassy after the country's Islamic revolution in 1979 and were gradually expanded in the following decades. Reinforced in the 2000s in an effort to stop Tehran developing nuclear weapons, the sanctions have left Iran bereft of inward investment and modern technology as foreign companies and well-known brands pulled out.
National industries have withered due to corruption and mismanagement. Much of the country's infrastructure has aged and deteriorated. Iranian agriculture is held back by inefficient farming and chronic water shortages. Many consumer goods are produced by state-owned or semi-state entities, including large charitable foundations tied to powerful institutions that control swathes of industry and retailing with limited transparency.
Iran's oil exports are still the mainstay of its economy. Most of the oil is shipped via opaque trading networks to Chinese refiners, who buy it at a significant discount because of the sanctions.
What's been happening with the sanctions on Iran?
Sanctions imposed under the aegis of the United Nations were eased as part of a 2015 nuclear deal with the US and other nations. But Iran benefited little and President Donald Trump withdrew the US from the pact in 2018 and reimposed a raft of sanctions.
Iran held talks with the US last April over its nuclear program that could have led to some sanctions relief. But these failed to yield an agreement. Israeli and US airstrikes on Iran in June destroyed much of the country's surface nuclear activity and curtailed the ability of the UN nuclear watchdog to verify the size and location of Iran's highly enriched uranium. As a result, comprehensive UN sanctions were reimposed in September.
How are these protests different to those in the past?
Economic hardship has fueled previous bouts of unrest, but the trigger was often social or political, such as the downing of a Ukrainian passenger plane in 2020 and the 2022 death in police custody of a young woman, Mahsa Amini, who had been arrested for allegedly failing to wear a hijab.
This time around, the protests were sparked by rampant inflation and worsening living standards — problems that directly impact the majority of Iranians, whether they are middle or working class, liberal or conservative.
That's made it harder for the authorities to calibrate their response, with different parts of the government initially at odds over how to handle the unrest. President Masoud Pezeshkian, a political moderate, described the protesters' demands as legitimate and urged security forces not to target peaceful demonstrators. He's offered condolences to families affected by the "tragic consequences" of the unrest.
However, Supreme Leader Khamenei — who has the ultimate authority — has said "rioters must be put in their place."
As the protests intensified and the death toll mounted, Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi and others accused international actors of inciting the unrest, namely Israel and the US, and the government imposed an internet blackout to prevent detailed information about the demonstrations being reported.
State channels initially aired coverage of the marches — albeit heavily censored. They later switched to broadcasting pro-regime rallies, saying they'd been organized to promote "national unity".
Where does Iran go from here?
In more than four decades of theocratic rule, Iranians have endured military conflicts and sweeping restrictions on social freedoms. Joblessness and poverty have caused millions to emigrate, and many citizens have become convinced the leadership is incapable of improving their lives.
The regime was dealt a severe blow in June 2025 by the Israeli and US bombing campaign that destroyed much of the country's nuclear infrastructure and killed dozens of military officials and scientists. Trump has warned repeatedly that the US will strike Iran again if the government kills peaceful protesters, although it's unclear how this would aid the demonstrators.
He also said that the US will impose a 25% tariff on goods from countries "doing business" with the Islamic Republic. Details on the scope and implementation of these charges are sparse, but the levies could impact a range of nations that have trading relationships with Iran, led by China, the United Arab Emirates and Turkey.
For now, no unified, organized opposition movement has emerged to seriously challenge the Iranian leadership, and the government's bloody crackdown has drained some of the momentum from the protests.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-01-12" author="Weilun Soon, Serene Cheong" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="What's at Stake for the Oil Market If Iran Crisis Escalates">

Oil traders are watching for any escalation of the civil unrest in Iran that could disrupt the country's crude production or prompt the government to block the Strait of Hormuz, a key waterway for several major Middle Eastern energy exporters.
The mass protests, triggered by a currency crisis and economic collapse, pose the biggest threat to the rulers of the Islamic Republic in decades and have been met with a deadly crackdown. More than 500 people have been killed so far and thousands arrested.
President Donald Trump has said that the US is "looking at some very strong options" to respond to the killing of demonstrators. He's been briefed on options for military strikes, according to a White House official. Should the US or ally Israel intervene, this could draw neighboring countries into the crisis and threaten access to the strait that handles around a quarter of the world's seaborne oil trade.
How significant is Iran's oil industry?
Its influence has diminished in recent years due to prolonged sanctions and limited foreign investment. Overall, the country accounts for about 3% of global supply, producing roughly 3.3 million barrels per day.
Iran began developing its oil industry at the start of the 20th century, under the watch of a British government eager to secure reliable supplies. Decades later, the nation became a founding member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and rose to become the group's second-largest producer. At its peak in the mid 1970s, Iran ranked among the world's most important oil suppliers, responsible for more than 10% of global crude production.
That dominance unraveled after the 1979 Iranian Revolution, when the new regime expelled foreign companies from the oil industry, curbing investment and outside expertise. The country's crude output slumped and never reached peak levels again.
The Islamic Republic did ramp up exports after the Iran-Iraq War ended in the late 1980s, to support economic growth. European and US majors eventually sought to reenter the sector. But those efforts collapsed in 2018, when the first Trump administration pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal — an international agreement to limit and monitor the nation's nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief — and reimposed sanctions.
Today, Iran's slice of the the global oil market has been sharply reduced, constrained by its own size and rising output from other producers. The country now ranks fourth within OPEC, behind Saudi Arabia, Iraq and the United Arab Emirates, according to December production data.
Who buys Iran's oil?
In the face of international sanctions, Iran now relies on China to take about 90% of its crude exports, which are sold to independent refiners at a steep discount.
While official customs data suggests China hasn't imported Iranian crude since mid-2022, these barrels are shipped via opaque trading networks and a "dark fleet" of mostly aging tankers.
Other countries that have continued to buy Iranian cargoes include Syria.
How could unrest in Iran affect oil prices?
A large share of Iran's production, around 2 million barrels a day, goes to Chinese refineries, who would be forced to seek alternative supplies in the event of major disruption.
However, a bigger concern is if tensions spill over into the wider region, which forms the backbone of global oil supply. Saudi Arabia, Iraq, the UAE and Qatar are all located within the Persian Gulf and export crude via the Strait of Hormuz.
Traders, who are already grappling with the fallout from the US intervention in Venezuela, have factored in some of those risks. Brent futures prices have edged higher in the days since the US staked a claim on Venezuelan oil, and West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, has risen alongside.
Still, prices have remained contained around the low $60s for Brent, not far off 2021 lows. A well-supplied crude market has kept extreme prices swings in check.
Why is the Strait of Hormuz so important?
The Strait of Hormuz is the narrow waterway that connects the Persian Gulf with the Arabian Sea. The Iranian government previously said it has the ability to impose a naval blockade during periods of heightened geopolitical tension, though it has yet to effectively block the waterway. If it were to disrupt this key trade chokepoint, shipments of oil, liquefied natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas from Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the UAE would be at risk.
Some 16.5 million barrels of oil a day flow through the strait, including the bulk of Iran's exports. Saudi Arabia exports the most via the waterway, at roughly 5 million barrels per day, but it can divert shipments by using a 746-mile pipeline that runs across the kingdom from east to west to a port in the Red Sea, where the oil is loaded onto vessels for onward transport. The UAE can likewise bypass this chokepoint by moving its 1.5 million barrels a day through a pipeline that ends at the Gulf of Oman.
A shutdown of the Hormuz Strait would likely disrupt Asia-bound oil flows from the Middle East. In June, when tensions in the region escalated during a 12-day conflict between Israel and Iran, the benchmark rate for a supertanker carrying 2 million barrels of crude from the Middle East to China spiked.
How important is oil for Iran's economy?
Oil exports remain a central pillar of the economy, despite years of efforts to reduce dependence on crude and diversify into heavy industry, textiles and mining.
While sanctions have forced Iran to export its oil at steep discounts to international benchmarks to attract buyers, the country still earned an estimated $2.7 billion in revenue in November alone, based on Bloomberg calculations using a discounted oil price of $45 a barrel, after accounting for shipping and other costs.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-01-15" author="David Goldman" newspaper="CNN" title="Trump is threatening to attack a country that produces three times more oil than Venezuela">

The United States is considering whether to strike Iran as turmoil intensifies for the country's authoritarian regime.
The Iranian government is at its weakest point in years, destabilizing yet another OPEC nation less than two weeks after the United States toppled the government of Venezuela.
Protests have erupted in the streets across Iran, and the government's deadly crackdown on protesters crossed a red line President Donald Trump had drawn. Trump has signaled that his administration is weighing an attack – although on Wednesday, Trump said the United States will continue to "watch and see what the process is" to determine whether to take action against Iran.
Iran controls the third-largest proven oil reserves on Earth and one of the world's most important oil shipping lanes. Those factors will shape the country's future, regardless of whether the US intervenes.
Iran's massive oil industry
Iran produces about 3.2 million barrels of oil per day, on average, according to OPEC, accounting for roughly 4% of global crude production. That makes Iran the world's sixth-largest oil producer – an impressive feat, considering Iran faces burdensome worldwide sanctions that have severely limited its potential customers. To skirt sanctions, Iran operates a shadow fleet of vessels to export oil at a steep discount.
But Iran's potential far outweighs its actual output. The country is sitting on 209 billion barrels of oil in reserve, behind only Venezuela and Saudi Arabia. And its daily production is less than half the 6.5 million barrels per day Iran produced in the mid-1970s before revolutionaries overthrew the Shah.
Like Venezuela, China is by far Iran's biggest customer: It bought 97% of Iran's oil in 2024, according to the US Energy Information Administration. The similarities don't end there: Iran also nationalized the country's energy infrastructure after expropriating foreign oil companies' assets in past decades.
But Iran is a much more important for global energy than Venezuela.
"Iran is significantly larger than Venezuela for oil markets," said Luisa Palacios, a former Citgo chairwoman and current managing director of Columbia University's Center on Global Energy Policy. "Developments for Iran matter much more for oil markets in the near term, because of the risk of oil supply disruption."
What could happen to oil prices?
The price of oil has already risen sharply because of the threat of disruption to Iran's oil. Crude rose above $61 a barrel Wednesday in response to threats of an attack on Iran – just a week after oil fell to $56 a barrel when Trump promised US oil companies would ramp up production in Venezuela. Oil fell 4%, back below $60, Thursday morning after Trump suggested an attack wasn't imminent.
Oil could rise significantly higher if the United States strikes Iran – but that probably depends on the extent of the possible attack and Iran's response.
For example, crude prices surged 7% and rose above $74 a barrel in early June as tensions escalated between Israel and Iran. But prices actually fell sharply after the United States' historic attack on three Iranian nuclear facilities later that month because the United States avoided attacking the country's oil infrastructure – and Iran's missile attacks on US bases were intercepted and widely viewed as symbolic.
Iran has the power to inflict serious damage on the oil market, however, if it wants: The country controls the northern side of the Strait of Hormuz, a pinch point for other oil-producing countries through which 20 million barrels of crude – about one-fifth of daily global production – flow. The strait is the only way to ship crude from the Persian Gulf to the rest of the world.
"Iran's ability to cause chaos in the oil markets is significant if they choose to lash out," said Dan Pickering, founder and chief investment officer at Pickering Energy Partners.
That's why the oil market is getting jittery.
"Oil traders are effectively placing bets on chaos," said Nigel Green, CEO of global financial advisory giant deVere Group. "Traders appear to be positioning for a scenario where the Strait of Hormuz shifts from being a shipping route to a strategic pressure point capable of choking global supply."
What happens if the Ayatollah is ousted?
Iran has a surprisingly diversified economy for a sanctioned nation, with oil making up only about 10% to 15% of the country's overall gross domestic product. But Iran's government relies heavily on the oil industry for its finances, bringing in half of its revenue from crude exports.
"Oil plays a critical role in the current regime and would continue to do so if the regime changes," said Pickering.
Iran also has a leg up on Venezuela, whose authoritarian regime allowed the country's oil infrastructure to crumble over the past couple decades. By contrast, Iran's infrastructure is in decent shape.
"A future government would not be starting from zero," Green said. "It would be starting from constrained capacity that can be, in most likely scenarios, unlocked."
Of course, that's if a new government in Iran is friendly to the West, persuading countries around the globe to drop their sanctions, noted Helima Croft, head of global commodity strategy at RBC Capital Markets.
"It all depends on what comes next and what regime emerges post Khamenei," Croft said.
In the near term, regime change could send oil prices higher, as the uncertainty of a political transition – including determining who would control the state-run oil industry – would add risk to the global crude market. But a new government in Iran could help stabilize and reduce oil prices in the long run, especially if it adds the transparency that the current authoritarian Iranian government has prevented for decades.
That could put a significant amount of oil into the global market, according to Matt McManus, a former State Department official and a visiting fellow at the National Center for Energy Analytics.
Like Venezuela, however, US oil companies' interest in moving into Iran could be limited, at least at first.
Political stability and guarantees of security would need to precede any major American oil company's involvement in Iran. And with crude prices still quite low, oil companies aren't exactly rushing into new opportunities with questionable profits.
"As for Iran, it has significant resources," said Mike Sommers, CEO of the American Petroleum Institute, the oil industry's trade group. "But any discussion of investment would depend on political stability."

</doc>

<doc date="2026-02-15" author="Reuters" newspaper="Reuters" title="Iran says potential energy, mining and aircraft deals are on the table in talks with the U.S.">

Iran is pursuing a nuclear agreement with the U.S. that delivers economic benefits for both sides, an Iranian diplomat was reported as saying on Sunday, days before a second round of talks between Tehran and Washington.
Iran and the U.S. renewed negotiations earlier this month to tackle their decades-long dispute over Tehran's nuclear programme and avert a new military confrontation. The U.S. has dispatched a second aircraft carrier to the region and is preparing for the possibility of a sustained military campaign if the talks do not succeed, U.S. officials have told Reuters.
U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio, speaking at a news conference in Bratislava, said President Donald Trump had made it clear that he would prefer diplomacy and a negotiated settlement, while making clear that may not happen.
"No one's ever been able to do a successful deal with Iran but we're going to try," Rubio said.
Iran has threatened to strike U.S. bases in the Middle East if it is attacked by U.S. forces but on Sunday took a conciliatory line.
"For the sake of an agreement's durability, it is essential that the U.S. also benefits in areas with high and quick economic returns," foreign ministry deputy director for economic diplomacy Hamid Ghanbari said, according to the semi-official Fars news agency.
"Common interests in the oil and gas fields, joint fields, mining investments, and even aircraft purchases are included in the negotiations," Ghanbari said, arguing that the 2015 nuclear pact with world powers had not secured U.S. economic interests.
In 2018, Trump withdrew the U.S. from the pact that had eased sanctions on Iran in exchange for curbs on its nuclear programme, and re-applied tough economic sanctions on Tehran.
On Friday, a source told Reuters that a U.S. delegation including envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner would meet Iranian officials in Geneva on Tuesday, a meeting later confirmed to Reuters by a senior Iranian official on Sunday.
"Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner will be traveling, I think they are traveling right now, to have important meetings and we'll see how that turns out," Rubio said, without providing further details.
While talks leading to the 2015 nuclear pact were multilateral, the current negotiations are confined to Iran and the United States, with Oman acting as mediator.
Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi left Tehran for Geneva to take part in the indirect nuclear talks with the U.S. and meet the head of the UN nuclear watchdog, the IAEA, and others, his ministry said.
Open to compromise
Deputy Foreign Minister Majid Takht-Ravanchi signalled Iran's readiness to compromise on its nuclear programme in return for sanctions relief, telling the BBC on Sunday that the ball was "in America's court to prove that they want to do a deal."
The senior official referred to the Iranian atomic chief's statement on Monday that the country could agree to dilute its most highly enriched uranium in exchange for the lifting of sanctions as an example of Iran's flexibility.
However, he reiterated that Tehran would not accept zero uranium enrichment, a key sticking point in past negotiations, with Washington viewing enrichment inside Iran as a potential pathway to nuclear weapons. Iran denies seeking such weapons.
In June, the U.S. joined Israel in a series of air strikes that targeted Iranian nuclear sites.
The U.S. is also stepping up economic pressure on Iran. At a White House meeting earlier this week, Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu agreed that the U.S. would work to reduce Iran's oil exports to China, Axios reported on Saturday.
China accounts for more than 80% of Iran's oil exports so any reduction in that trade would significantly lower Iran's oil revenue.
Netanyahu: Dismantle Iran nuclear infrastructure
Netanyahu said on Sunday he told U.S. President Donald Trump last week that any U.S. deal with Iran must include the dismantling of Iran's nuclear infrastructure, not just stopping the enrichment process.
Speaking at the annual Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, Netanyahu also said Israel still needs to "complete the job" of destroying all tunnels in Gaza. Israel, he said, has already dismantled 150 km (93 miles) of an estimated 500 km.
Netanyahu said he is skeptical of a U.S. deal with Iran but said it must include enriched material leaving Iran. "There shall be no enrichment capability — not stopping the enrichment process, but dismantling the equipment and the infrastructure that allows you to enrich in the first place," he said.
Netanyahu also said that he aimed to end U.S. military aid to Israel within the next 10 years, after the current 10-year deal of receiving $3.8 billion a year — which is largely spent in the United States on equipment — ends in 2028.
Due to a thriving economy, "we can afford to phase out the financial component of the military aid that we're receiving, and I propose a 10-year drawdown to zero. Now, in the three years that remain in the present memorandum of understanding and another seven years draw it down to zero," Netanyahu said.
"We want to move with the United States from aid to partnership," he said.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-02-22" author="Reuters" newspaper="Reuters" title="Iran and U.S. diverge in views on sanctions relief, senior Iranian official tells Reuters">

Iran and the United States have differing views over sanctions relief in talks to curb Tehran's nuclear ambitions, a senior Iranian official told Reuters on Sunday, adding that new talks were planned in early March as fears of a military confrontation grow.
Iran and the U.S. renewed negotiations earlier this month to tackle their decades-long dispute over Tehran's nuclear programme as the U.S. builds up its military capability in the Middle East, fuelling fears of a wider war.
Iran has threatened to strike U.S. bases in the Middle East if it is attacked by U.S. forces.
"The last round of talks showed that U.S. ideas regarding the scope and mechanism of sanctions relief differ from Iran's demands. Both sides need to reach a logical timetable for lifting sanctions," the official said.
"This roadmap must be reasonable and based on mutual interests." Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araqchi said on Friday that he expected to have a draft counterproposal ready within days, while U.S. President Donald Trump said he was considering limited military strikes.
Readiness to compromise
While rejecting a U.S. demand for "zero enrichment" - a major sticking point in past negotiations - Tehran has signalled its readiness to compromise on its nuclear work.
Washington views enrichment inside Iran as a potential pathway to nuclear weapons. Iran denies seeking nuclear weapons and wants its right to enrich uranium to be recognised.
Washington has also demanded that Iran relinquish its stockpile of highly enriched uranium (HEU). The UN nuclear agency last year estimated that stockpile at more than 440 kg of uranium enriched to up to 60% fissile purity, a small step away from the 90% that is considered weapons grade.
The Iranian official said Tehran could seriously consider a combination of exporting part of its HEU stockpile, diluting the purity of its most highly enriched uranium and the establishment of a regional enrichment consortium in exchange for the recognition of Iran's right to "peaceful nuclear enrichment".
"The negotiations continue and the possibility of reaching an interim agreement exists," he said.
Benefits for both sides
Iranian authorities have said that a diplomatic solution delivers economic benefits for both Tehran and Washington.
"Within the economic package under negotiation, the United States has also been offered opportunities for serious investment and tangible economic interests in Iran's oil industry," the official said.
However, he said Tehran will not hand over control of its oil and mineral resources.
"Ultimately, the U.S. can be an economic partner for Iran, nothing more. American companies can always participate as contractors in Iran's oil and gas fields."

</doc>

<doc date="2026-02-25" author="Magdalena Del Valle" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="US Levels New Sanctions on Iran's Missile Program, Shadow Fleet">

The Trump administration imposed sanctions on more than 30 entities that support Iranian oil and weapons sales, ramping up pressure on Tehran amid nuclear talks and the looming threat of US airstrikes.
The Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control said it blacklisted individuals and entities across the Middle East — including in Iran, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates — that helped Tehran develop ballistic missiles and advanced conventional weapons.
The US also sanctioned vessels operating as part of Iran's so-called shadow fleet, which helps fund "domestic repression, terrorist proxies, and weapons programs," according to a statement from Treasury.
"Iran exploits financial systems to sell illicit oil, launder the proceeds, procure components for its nuclear and conventional weapons programs, and support its terrorist proxies," said Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent in a statement.
The additional sanctions come after President Donald Trump in his State of the Union speech on Tuesday claimed Iran was working to reconstitute its nuclear program even as it negotiates with Washington.
Trump insisted Iranian officials are "again pursuing their sinister ambitions" despite US airstrikes in June 2025 that the president said "completely and totally obliterated" key nuclear enrichment facilities.
"They want to make a deal, but we haven't heard those secret words: 'We will never have a nuclear weapon,'" he said in his address.
Talks between US officials and Iran are still ongoing, with the latest round of negotiations scheduled for Thursday in Geneva. Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner and special envoy Steve Witkoff are planning to attend.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-02-27" author="Anniek Bao" newspaper="Reuters" title="U.S. and Iran wrap up most intense nuclear talks with no deal — more negotiations ahead">

The latest round of U.S.-Iran talks did not lead to a breakthrough, with both sides agreeing to extend negotiations, Iranian Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi said, describing the discussions as the "most intense so far."
"Further progress has been made in our diplomatic engagement with the United States," said Araghchi, adding that both sides planned to engage in a more "detailed" manner on critical issues including termination of U.S. sanctions on Iran and "nuclear-related steps."
The two sides made "significant progress" in the high-stakes talks in Geneva, Switzerland, and agreed to meet next week to discuss technical details in Vienna, according to Oman's foreign minister Badr Al Busaidi, the mediator of the talks.
Al-Busaidi is headed to Washington to meet with Vice President JD Vance and other U.S. officials on Friday, according to MS Now. Vance has previously downplayed the possibility of the U.S. entering into a years-long war with Iran despite intensifying military rhetoric from Tehran and Washington.
Earlier this week, U.S. President Donald Trump said that Iran wants to make a "deal" more than the U.S. while Tehran's refusal to commit to not developing nuclear weapons remains a key sticking point holding up the agreement.
In his State of the Union address earlier this week, Trump said that "They [Iran] want to make a deal, but we haven't heard those secret words: We will never have a nuclear weapon."
Tensions continued to run high as the U.S. has amassed a large military force in the Middle East with Trump last week warning that "bad things" would happen if Iran does not agree to a deal over the future of its nuclear program.
The third round of talks this week were led by U.S. special envoy Steve Witkoff and Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, while Araghchi headed the Iranian delegation.
The Wall Street Journal reported earlier Friday that the U.S. team had tough demands for the Iranians, including that they destroy the three main nuclear sites at Fordow, Natanz and Isfahan, and deliver all of its remaining enriched uranium to the U.S. Iranian officials have objected to these demands.
The team also requested any nuclear deal must last forever and not have so-called sunset clauses, the newspaper reported, citing unnamed U.S. officials.
From nuclear program to ballistic missiles
Iran's nuclear program has been at the crux of the negotiations, with the U.S. pressuring Tehran to curb its ballistic-missile development program as well. But Tehran has insisted on its right to carry out the enrichment of uranium in the country, saying it's needed for energy production.
Right before the latest talks in Switzerland, U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio said that Iran's reluctance to discuss its development of intercontinental ballistic missiles was a significant stumbling block.
The Trump administration has also demanded Tehran to stop supporting regional armed groups and cease its repression of domestic protestors.
Analysts have warned of risks of a military clash in the region should the two sides fail to reach any meaningful breakthrough, which could unleash turmoil in the wider Middle East and for oil markets.
"Absent a diplomatic breakthrough in the coming days, the U.S. risks entering into a military clash with significant escalatory potential," said Michael Hanna, director at International Crisis Group, a Brussels-based think tank.
Hanna also pointed out that Washington's priorities remain unclear as it presses a wide-ranging list of demands for Tehran: "It is unclear if the administration itself has a fixed idea about its desired end point."
Among Tehran's priorities in the talks is the lifting of sanctions that have hobbled its economy and fueled a currency crisis, sparking widespread protests against the Islamic Republic in December.
Outcome of this week's indirect talks will be key to the direction of oil prices as traders weigh potential supply concerns if hostilities escalate.
WTI futures were down 35 cents, or 0.24%, on Friday at $64.97 per barrel. Brent crude futures lost 38 cents, or 0.30%, to $70.54 per barrel.
"The market may hold off on a full reaction until the scale of potential U.S. action against Iran becomes clearer," said Warren Patterson, head of commodities strategy at ING Bank, forecasting that any "targeted and brief" strikes that avoid energy infrastructure — like those seen in June last year — with limited retaliation from Iran may lead to a short-lived spike in oil prices.
But in the event of longer-term action from Washington coupled with more aggressive retaliation from Tehran, oil prices will likely stay elevated on supply risks.
Traders will also watch the OPEC+ decision on oil output for April this weekend.
"If we are to see de-escalation between the U.S. and Iran, it should allow weaker fundamentals to feed through to a lower flat price — particularly if OPEC+ resumes supply increases from April, which we believe they will agree to this weekend," Patterson said.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-02-28" author="Lee Ying Shan" newspaper="Reuters" title="Bigger ramifications than Venezuela: Markets brace for impact after U.S. strikes Iran">

Market watchers are bracing for turbulence after the U.S. confirmed it has launched "major combat operations" in Iran, a move investors say could carry far greater market consequences than the recent run of geopolitical flare-ups.
U.S. President Donald Trump said the U.S. military has begun "major combat operations" in Iran.
Several ministries in the southern part of the Iranian capital, Tehran, were targeted, Reuters quoted an unidentified Iranian official as saying.
Markets have been unfazed and accustomed to absorbing recent geopolitical and economic shocks and headlines, including Trump's announcement of a hike in U.S. tariffs on all imports to 15%, as well as the administration's capture of former Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro.
"This has definitely bigger ramifications than Venezuela," said Florian Weidinger, CIO at Santa Lucia Asset Management.
"Venezuela was ... only really relevant for people who care about that particular heavy crude," Weidinger told CNBC. The country's heavy, sour crude can be challenging to extract, though it is prized by specific, complex refineries, particularly in the U.S.
"That's why it's a bigger risk. You would expect oil to tick up a bit more violently next week as a result of that," he added.
Oil to shoot up, pivot to safety
Venezuela currently produces an average of 800,000 barrels of crude oil per day, well below its peak of 3.5 million barrels per day, or bpd, in the 1990s.
"Venezuela was a production story. [Iran] is a chokepoint story," said Kenneth Goh, director of private wealth management at UOB Kay Hian in Singapore.
Located in the gulf between Oman and Iran, the strait is recognized as one of the world's most important oil choke points. About 13 million barrels per day of crude oil transited the Strait of Hormuz in 2025, accounting for roughly 31% of global seaborne crude flows, according to data from market intelligence firm Kpler.
In June 2025, when Israel struck Iranian nuclear sites, equities sold off sharply at the open, then recovered once it became clear the strait was not disrupted.
"That is the pattern markets will reference on Monday," Goh said, adding that there could be a flight to safety with a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, Japanese yen, and a rush into gold.
Other market watchers echoed the same. Alicia Garcia-Herrero, chief economist for Asia-Pacific at Natixis, similarly expects a "rough and risk-off" open on Monday, with global equities potentially down 1% to 2% or more, U.S. Treasury yields falling 5 to 10 basis points, and oil jumping 5% to 10%.
But "no hero bets," she said, cautioning that investors should wait for Iran's response.
Short campaign vs. 'regime change endeavor'
That said, some money managers said that risk-off positioning has been building for weeks, potentially providing some buffer against initial volatility once trading gets underway.
Weidinger noted that some cross-asset moves have already reflected "a little bit of a crisis environment," citing firmer oil and stronger demand for Treasurys in recent weeks.
While the markets have anticipated this development, investors are closely monitoring whether the latest move by the U.S. remains a short, concentrated campaign or escalates into a prolonged regional conflict.
Quantum Strategy's David Roche framed the market impact in terms of duration and whether Iran would attempt to close the Strait of Hormuz. If the conflict is short and contained, he said, the risk-off move and oil spike could be brief.
If it turns into a longer, three-to-five-week "regime change endeavor," markets would react "rather badly" as investors price in a wider conflict and longer oil disruption.
A prolonged retaliation by Iran would also be particularly impactful for Asian markets, given their reliance on stable energy supplies and trade routes, said Global X ETFs' investment strategist Billy Leung, who expects global equities to open lower with heightened volatility, especially in high-beta and cyclical sectors.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-01" author="Renee Rigdon, Hanna Ziady, Auzinea Bacon" newspaper="CNN" title="Oil surges and stock futures sink as war in Iran threatens crude supply">

Oil futures surged Monday after the United States and Israel launched strikes against Iran over the weekend, with the conflict spilling over into the wider Middle East region.
US crude jumped 7.5%. Brent crude, the international benchmark, spiked 6.2% to trade at around $77 a barrel, having briefly surpassed $82 earlier in the trading session. Oil prices had already been rising in anticipation of an attack on Iran.
Meanwhile, stock futures fell. Futures for the S&P 500, the Nasdaq and the Dow were all down more than 1%. But Exxon and Chevron shares rose pre-market as high oil prices tend to boost oil companies' profits. Defense stocks, like Northrop Grumman and Lockheed Martin, were also up strongly.
Traders are betting that the current disruption to the oil market because of the strikes will be relatively brief. But significant uncertainty remains about the scope and timeframe for the war, which US President Donald Trump suggested could last weeks.
Large-scale unrest, a chaotic power vacuum, strikes that take out oil production, or a prolonged shutdown of a critical oil shipping channel could eventually send oil to $100 a barrel or even higher, industry analysts warn.
If that happens — and the market is currently betting against that scenario — gasoline prices could go through the roof. That could force Americans to pay a price for regime change in Iran, exacerbating affordability concerns.
Here's what you need know about the oil market as the military conflict ensues.
Iran has major oil reserves
Iran plays a pivotal role in the global oil market. It is a major producer of oil, controls a vital shipping lane for crude and exports to oil-hungry nations such as China. The country also boasts the world's third-largest proven oil reserves, according to OPEC.
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, OPEC+, said early Sunday they would raise its daily output by 206,000 barrels a day after pausing incremental production increases earlier in the year.
The increase in supply may have somewhat blunted the surge in oil prices, but energy analysts don't expect it to do much to keep prices in check if there is a sizeable disruption to oil flows.
The Strait of Hormuz
The Strait of Hormuz, a narrow waterway off Iran's southern coast, is the main shipping route for crude from oil-rich countries such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait to the rest of the world. Iran controls the strait's northern side. About 20 million barrels of oil, or about one-fifth of daily global production, flow through the strait every day, according to the US Energy Information Administration, which calls the channel a "critical oil chokepoint."
Iran has threatened to close the vital waterway in previous conflicts with the United States and other Western nations. During Iran's 12-day conflict with Israel last year, Goldman Sachs estimated that oil prices could blow past $100 a barrel if there was an "extended disruption" to the strait.
Although Iran has not closed the strait, vessels are avoiding the waterway due to safety risks and after several tankers came under attack in the region at the weekend.
Rystad Energy's head of geopolitical analysis, Jorge Leon, said there was an "effective halt of traffic" through the vital shipping lane. "Elevated global benchmark prices (for oil)… are expected to be sustained until the Strait is passable," Leon wrote in a note Saturday.
China relies on Iranian oil
Asian economies, including China and India, would be left particularly exposed if the Strait of Hormuz were closed.
Their scramble to secure oil from other countries could send global prices higher. Even a more benign scenario in which only Iranian oil shipments are affected would have knock-on effects globally.
"Since oil is a global, fungible commodity, a disruption anywhere affects prices everywhere," Clayton Seigle, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Relations, a Washington, DC-based think tank, wrote in a recent research note.
"A loss of Iranian barrels would cause China to bid for substitute supplies," Seigle said.
Even more worrying than the closure of the strait would be if Saudi Arabia's oil production facilities were knocked offline for an extended period, according to Bob McNally, president of Rapidan Energy Group.
He noted that the oil plant in Abqaiq, Saudi Arabia, that was attacked in 2019 had specialized equipment that "you can't just order from General Electric."
On Monday, Saudi Arabia shut some units at its biggest domestic oil refinery, Ras Tanura, after a drone strike. The closure was a precautionary measure and was not expected to affect production, Reuters reported.
Gas prices expected to rise
Iran is the world's sixth-largest oil producer. A prolonged military conflict that engulfs the wider Middle East would mean surging oil prices, boosting gasoline prices and overall inflation, according to experts.
Wholesale prices for gasoline futures could rise 25 cents immediately because of the war with Iran, and that could translate to an increase of 5 cents to 10 cents per day for a while, said Tom Kloza, a veteran oil analyst and an advisor to Gulf Oil, a US company.
"Prior to Friday night, I would have said that we would stop at $3.25 (per gallon). Now it's kind of, it's a little bit open ended."
Gas prices across the nation average $3 a gallon, after dropping to levels not seen since 2021 in December, according to the American Automobile Association. The Trump administration has repeatedly celebrated falling gas prices, which the conflict in Iran threatens to unravel.
When Israel attacked Iran last June, Brent crude posted its biggest single-day gain since March 2022. The price rose further after the United States became involved in the brief conflict and fell sharply when a ceasefire was announced.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-01" author="Javier Blas" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="Iran Strikes Will Be Nasty for Oil Prices, But Not a Shock">

One can look at oil and the Middle East through two lenses. Magnify every detail from the attacks on Iran and its responses and a chaotic picture emerges. When the market reopens on Sunday night, oil prices are likely to jump 10%-15% as a result. But seen from a wider angle — looking broadly at the global economy — the energy picture does not appear as scary, even if Brent crude does jump to, say, $80-plus a barrel.
First, an obvious disclaimer. The situation is fluid, and for the oil market everything depends on how Tehran responds to the US-Israeli strikes in the coming hours. But after the first day of hostilities we can draw a few tentative conclusions based on the unlikelihood of the type of full-blown oil shock we've seen in the past, and the decent supply of barrels of oil currently available. The biggest market fear is the targeting of energy infrastructure (or not) by both sides, and the enforced closure of tanker routes. Neither has happened. Yet.
Put the war and its likely geopolitical impact into historical context, and you'd be forgiven for being anxious. The Americans and Israelis launched coordinated air strikes on Iran, killing the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and scores of other senior officials. Iran responded with an unprecedented volley of missiles and drones, hitting Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain. The Islamic Republic is fighting for its own survival. Cornered, Tehran can still weaponize oil as its last line of defense. It's a huge risk.
With a different economic backdrop, this wouldn't just be the mother of all oil shocks; it would be the rest of the family, too. It's Hollywood stuff that only a few years ago would have led to predictions of oil zooming past its 2008 high on the way to $200 a barrel. That would have put the global economy on its knees, with runaway inflation likely forcing central bankers to hike interest rates and potentially crashing the financial markets.
For sure, the oil price is going to spike. But even the most bullish traders are talking about perhaps reaching $100, well below the $139 seen in 2022 after Russia invaded Ukraine, and 2008's all-timer of $147.50. Using that wide-angle lens, the Middle East isn't about to trigger an oil shock. It may be a wobble, perhaps a tremor, it may even get nasty, but the economy isn't heading into recession a la 1973-74 after the first oil crisis, or 1990-91 after Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait. The main reason for this is the one that will have emboldened Trump and his military strategists: The US shale revolution, which hands the US a much stronger hand in controlling prices.
And despite fears that Iran could set the Middle East's energy industry on fire, targeting oilfields, refineries and export terminals, Tehran hasn't yet turned oil into a weapon. Neither have Israel and the US targeted Iran's oil infrastructure. The Iranian retaliation has been loud, but it appears largely ineffective so far. The US has yet to report a single military casualty, and the damage elsewhere in the Gulf is relatively minor.
For energy markets, the biggest worry is the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow body of water to the south of Iran that's a chokepoint for about 20% of the world's oil. Shipping traffic has fallen sharply, although a handful of tankers passed through overnight without incident. Despite wild claims on social media, Iran has not closed the strait.
Any stoppages are being self-imposed by the shipping and oil industries, in part responding to some insurers withdrawing coverage and in part at the request of the US Navy in the first hours of the conflict. There's a bit of a buffer, as oil exporters such as Saudi Arabia, and even Iran, increased loadings in the days running up to the attacks. Oil exports from the Persian Gulf were nearly 10% higher in February than the month before. The bulk of that has already left the region. Still, unless Washington quickly convinces shipping firms that the strait is safe, the self-imposed pause would turn into real disruption.
In a social-media video, US President Donald Trump promised to "annihilate" the Iranian navy, an indication of the White House's maritime priorities. The clock is ticking, and Hormuz will make or break this crisis. Fatih Birol, the head of the International Energy Agency, put it well by saying, "Markets had been well supplied to date." Those words "to date" are key. If oil prices get ugly, Trump may create an off-ramp for himself. Having killed Khamenei, he can claim "mission accomplished" and move on.
Thankfully, the physical oil market entered the crisis weak in terms of pricing pressure. For months supply has run ahead of demand, allowing inventories to slowly refill, albeit from a low level. Now the industry is heading into a couple of months of weak demand as the northern hemisphere emerges from winter.
For the last two years, China, the biggest buyer of Middle Eastern crude, has been building a massive strategic petroleum reserve, which could limit the wider market disruption. Iranian oil is sold almost exclusively to Chinese refineries. If needed, Western nations can tap their reserves as well.
And while the physical market has been weak, the financial oil market has been bullish, snapping up oil in the expectation of rising prices. A year ago, Israel and America's 12-Day War on Iran wrongfooted many traders, triggering a wave of buying that caused crude prices to leap. This time, the number of bullish positions is at one of the highest levels over the past 10 years. As such, oil traders are better prepared to digest the crisis.
The OPEC+ oil cartel can help cushion some of the impact, but more with words than barrels. On Sunday, the group announced a production increase for April, and hinted more to come. Still, unless the Strait of Hormuz fully reopens, all the incremental barrels will be trapped. Saudi Arabia and the UAE have pipelines that let them bypass the strait, partly anyway. If the conflict intensifies, they will highlight that alternative.
One of the world's chief oil bulls, of course, resides in the Kremlin. Vladimir Putin will benefit from the war via loftier oil prices and greater demand for his own sanctioned crude. Barely hiding his glee, Russia envoy Kirill Dmitriev posted on social media on Saturday: "$100+ a barrel soon." He may be a tad too bullish, but directionally he is not wrong. Perhaps more important, Russia may find it easier to sell in the black market the millions of barrels of oil it has sitting in storage. If the White House turns a blind eye, India may buy them. That is hardly ideal for anyone trying to counter Putin's belligerence, but it would ease any global crude shortage linked to the Strait of Hormuz.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-03" author="Ziad Daoud, Dina Esfandiary, Jamie Rush, Jennifer Welch, Tom Orlik" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="Iran War Oil Shock Threatens to Unleash Wave of Global Inflation">

President Donald Trump's war with Iran threatens to deal a severe blow to a global economy still grappling with the impact of his historic tariff hike.
For Europe, sustained higher energy prices would take the economy to the brink of recession. For the US, they would place the Federal Reserve in an impossible position — stuck between a war that pushes inflation higher and a president demanding that interest rates come down. For China, the end of discounted Iranian oil imports adds to strain from Trump's tariffs and a real estate collapse.
In the first days of the fighting, the intensity is high and the endgame uncertain. Bloomberg Economics has modeled scenarios for what lies ahead, and what they mean for oil prices, major economies, and the future of Iran.
It is, of course, possible that Washington and Tehran find an off-ramp, oil settles back at its pre-escalation average of $65 a barrel, and the global economy dodges a blow.
The latest signs, though, suggest there's worse to come. Saudi Arabia's largest oil refinery is closed. Qatar has shuttered the world's biggest liquefied natural gas facility. The Strait of Hormuz is effectively paralyzed. Oil and gas prices have already rocketed higher. Stocks have taken a hit. Treasury yields have risen as traders curb bets on Fed cuts.
In a severe scenario, Bloomberg Economics assumes that with Trump warning of a "big wave" of attacks, Israel aiming at the fall of the Islamic Republic and Tehran betting it can outlast its adversaries, the fighting grinds on. Intensified Iranian strikes set refineries and ports ablaze or knock out pipelines, bringing energy production to a halt.
The US could provide air defenses to help protect tankers transiting the Strait in addition to the naval escorts and insurance Trump promised on Wednesday but risks would remain high. A few well-timed swarm attacks by low-cost Iranian drones could be all it takes to keep the conduit effectively closed.
About 20% of global oil supply passes through the Strait. Drawing on academic studies and the experience of past supply outages, Bloomberg Economics estimates that a 1% drop in supply pushes prices up by about 4%.
That suggests a prolonged closure of the Strait would raise prices by 80% from pre-war levels – taking them to around $108 a barrel. In a severe scenario, Bloomberg Economics assumes prices would stay that high into the fourth quarter of the year.
The range of uncertainty is wide. Major damage to Persian Gulf energy infrastructure – more drone strikes on Saudi Aramco's facilities for example, or an overshoot in the market reaction, could take prices significantly higher. More limited destruction or a shorter conflict would mean they rise less or spike more briefly.
Sharply higher oil prices impact the economy through multiple channels. They add to costs for consumers and businesses, reducing spending power and taking a chunk out of growth. They also add to inflation, pushing up prices for transport, and anything with petrochemicals as an input.
For central banks, what matters is the size of the impact and — crucially — whether inflation expectations stay anchored or not.
If they do, that could allow Fed Chair Jerome Powell, ECB President Christine Lagarde and their peers to look through the transitory impact on inflation and focus on the risks to growth — with potential to cut rates. If they don't, concern about workers demanding higher wages, businesses raising prices — and the result an inflationary spiral — may force them to hike.
For the US, the shale revolution has changed the way energy shocks impact the economy. Consumers lose from higher gas prices, but producers win – and the result nets out at basically zero impact on growth.
For inflation, it's a different story. Plugging $108 per barrel oil into SHOK — Bloomberg Economics' model of major economies — adds about 0.8 percentage point to inflation by year end. Adding that onto the pre-war forecast takes it above 3% — considerably outstripping the Fed's 2% target.
At a minimum, that would give the Fed pause before proceeding with more rate cuts. If inflation expectations are unanchored, the pressure would be to hike. Kevin Warsh, Trump's nominee for Fed chair, would find himself in a tough spot — with the president demanding lower rates but the forces unleashed by the conflict calling for higher.
Trump also faces political peril. Neither inflation nor foreign wars are popular with US voters — as he surely knows after his resounding win at the polls in 2024. Midterm elections are just a few short months away. For the moment, Congress seems unlikely to rein Trump in, even as he's so far failed to seek authorization for the attack.
For other major advanced economies — the euro area and the UK — the story on growth is more straightforward. Without any significant energy producers to benefit from higher oil prices, they face a bigger blow to GDP. Europe is also more exposed to natural gas prices, which spiked when Qatari production went offline.
Bloomberg Economics' model points to a blow to GDP from the energy shock of 0.6% for the euro area and 0.5% for the UK.
Inflation also moves higher, with an upward impulse of about 1.1 percentage point for both economies. If expectations drift higher, the ECB and BOE may be forced to delay cuts or hike rates – compounding the blow to growth.
China is a major oil importer. Iran and Venezuela together accounted for a substantial share of its purchases and — thanks to their pariah status — China was able to buy at a discount to the market price. Buying at $108 a barrel would add about 0.8 percentage point to inflation. Growth takes a modest hit — compounding stress from Trump's tariffs and the slow-motion implosion of the real estate bubble.
Among the winners from oil and gas disruptions: Russia. Sharply higher oil prices would effectively eliminate its budget deficit, giving the Kremlin more cash to spend on its war against Ukraine.
In a less extreme scenario, fighting continues without more major strikes on energy infrastructure or prolonged disruption to the Strait of Hormuz. Oil prices hover around $80 a barrel. Inflation expectations remain anchored.
Inflation rises modestly — about 0.3 percentage point in the US and about 0.5 percentage point in the UK and euro area. GDP gets dinged but not badly dented. Central banks may find they can look through the shock.
In the least extreme case, the US and Iran reach a ceasefire. Disruptions ease. Oil falls back to $65 a barrel. Disinflation continues, central banks stay the course, and risks to the global economy fade.
The outcome of the conflict will also shape the future of Iran. Intensified or prolonged fighting adds stability risks for the Islamic Republic. A ceasefire would help ensure its survival. The bombing has dealt a heavy blow, but the government remains firmly entrenched for now.
Powerbrokers within the system are keeping it running. Their priority is continuity.
The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps — Iran's powerful paramilitary force — will shape the transition to a new leadership. It will likely move to consolidate power. With a designation as a terrorist organization from the US, it's unlikely that the Guards will rush to improve relations with Washington.
A change in government is possible, but only over the long term and after a prolonged stretch of instability. The prospect of a popular uprising appears remote for now. Authorities are tightening control of the streets. No organized opposition operates inside the country.
This is not the first time that geopolitical rupture in the Middle East has roiled energy markets and the global economy. In 1973, an embargo from Arab states sent oil prices spiraling higher. In 1979, the Iranian revolution — the birth of the Islamic Republic — pushed them up again.
In the US, that drove inflation into double digits and forced the Fed, then under Chairman Paul Volcker, to tighten money supply. The consequence: unemployment close to 11% and the economy in recession.
The world has changed since then. The global economy has become more service oriented — with less energy-guzzling industry. Supply has diversified geographically and with the arrival of renewables. A shock at the same intensity as the 1970s seems unlikely to be repeated.
Still, the war in Iran has already pushed oil and gas prices sharply higher. If the conflict grinds on, the consequences for global growth, inflation and central bank policy will be significant and severe.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-08" author="Auzinea Bacon, David Goldman" newspaper="CNN" title="Oil prices soar past $100 a barrel as war escalates in Iran">

The price of oil kept climbing Monday, having surged past $100 per barrel Sunday, the first time it crossed that mark since Russia's 2022 invasion of Ukraine.
Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, neared $120 a barrel in early trade before paring some of those gains to trade at around $104, a 12% gain on the day. WTI, the US benchmark, soared more than 11% Monday to $101. US crude briefly hit $110 a barrel Sunday evening.
President Donald Trump, in a social media post, called surging oil costs a "very small price to pay."
"Short term oil prices, which will drop rapidly when the destruction of the Iran nuclear threat is over, is a very small price to pay for U.S.A., and World, Safety and Peace. ONLY FOOLS WOULD THINK DIFFERENTLY!" Trump posted Sunday on Truth Social.
But investors are growing increasingly worried about a protracted war that delivers a sustained hit to energy supply and prices, particularly following Iran's decision to appoint Mojtaba Khamenei as its next supreme leader. Khamenei is the son of former leader, Ali Khamenei, who was killed in the first wave of US and Israeli strikes.
"It's a sign of continuation of Iran's hardline approach and indicates that the war will be more prolonged than financial markets had assumed last week," Neil Wilson, a strategist at UK trading platform Saxo Markets, said in a note. "Complacency has been replaced by a degree of panic because the market is now pricing in a more sustained hit to energy and trade flows," he added.
Oil futures and gasoline prices have skyrocketed as traders worry that the war in Iran would lead to prolonged restrictions on the flow of oil around the globe — particularly as the war has spread to other countries in the Middle East, including attacks on nearby refineries in the oil-rich region.
Iran has threatened to attack any oil tanker passing through the Strait of Hormuz, through which 20% of the world's oil transits.
Oil could rise to $150 a barrel by the end of March if travel through the strait doesn't start flowing again, said Homayoun Falakshahi, lead crude research analyst at Kpler.
Surging oil prices have weighed heavily on stocks in recent days, as traders fear that a prolonged spike in fuel prices could lead to another spike in inflation and hurt the economy. Dow futures dropped more than 800 points, or 1.7%. S&P 500 and Nasdaq futures fell 1.6%.
Triggered by the shock of the initial February 28 strikes in Iran, the average price of gasoline in America reached $3.45 a gallon Sunday, up 16% from the week prior, according to AAA.
A prolonged spike in oil and gas prices could exacerbate America's struggles with affordability, putting Trump and Republicans in a precarious political position ahead of this year's midterm elections.
Attempts to keep prices in check
The Trump administration on Sunday tried to assuage fears that the US and Israeli-led military campaign against Iran would have long-term effects at the pump.
The administration announced a plan to supply insurance to oil tankers passing through the strait, after maritime insurers said they would not cover ships in the region if they were attacked. The White House also said it would work to secure naval escorts for ships, but a plan hasn't emerged, and shipping companies have said they are hesitant to traverse the region while the conflict continues.
"Our shipping experts say the administration's plan could help but won't be enough on its own," Falakshahi said. "I think the market will only calm down if there is a significant de-escalation now."
A senior Iranian official warned Sunday that the conflict has entered a "new phase" following Israel's strikes against Iranian oil storage sites. The official signaled Iran may retaliate on the region's energy infrastructure in the coming days.
"Iran will not give up control of the Strait of Hormuz until it achieves its desired results," the official said.
It has left oil producers with no more room to store the oil they're pumping. That means many oil producers are reducing their output.
On CNN's "State of the Union," Energy Secretary Chris Wright said the US does not plan to strike Iran's oil industry or other energy infrastructure sites. But Iranian oil is heavily sanctioned, and China is its only major buyer.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-10" author="Rakesh Sharma" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="Indian Oil Refiners Avoid Worst Effects of Iran War With Sanctions Reprieve">

The timing of the Iran war could hardly have been worse for India.
Refiners in the country, one of the major economies most dependent on energy imports, had been pulling back from buying Russian oil since December in the face of intensifying US pressure. They'd turned instead to replacement barrels from Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
So when the US and Israel attacked Iran in late February, and the Strait of Hormuz became effectively blocked as the war expanded, the alarm bells were ringing in New Delhi.
After several days of mounting panic, the Trump administration rode to the rescue: Its announcement last Thursday that it was giving India a one-month waiver to resume Russian oil purchases brought an almost palpable sense of relief.
Since then, Indian refiners haven't wasted any time taking advantage of the reprieve, scooping up every available shipment of Urals crude in the spot market, according to traders.
The fact that tankers carrying more than 20 million barrels of unsold Russian oil were already at sea, within a week's sailing time from Indian ports, offered the country a quick fix to the supply crunch.
The upshot is that Washington has shielded the country in Asia that has perhaps the most vulnerable oil supply chain to a Middle East war.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has not pressed private refiners to curb exports of fuel, and prices at the pumps have been left unchanged. The country also doesn't look like it will need to tap its strategic reserves in the near future. Unlike in neighboring Pakistan or Bangladesh, there are no long lines snaking out of fuel stations.
The war has exposed other energy pain points in India, most notably in liquefied petroleum gas, popular as a cooking fuel, and liquefied natural gas used in industry and power generation.
But for crude oil supply at least, New Delhi looks to be in one of the more comfortable positions in Asia.
Oil production cuts in the Middle East are deepening, shaving about 6% off global supply, as the Strait of Hormuz chokepoint remains at a near-standstill. Even so, crude futures tumbled after US President Donald Trump said the Iran war will end soon.
The US has indicated to European allies that any further loosening of sanctions on Russian oil would be mostly limited to supplies to India, according to people familiar with the matter.
Some Asian LNG buyers are struggling to find prompt cargoes after a war-related outage at the world's largest export facility in Qatar tightened global supplies of the super-chilled fuel.
At least a dozen ship clusters have appeared near the Strait of Hormuz, a likely sign of electronic interference around the waterway through which most transit has halted with the US and Israeli war against Iran.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-12" author="Courtney Subramanian" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="Trump and Iran Strike Defiant Tone as Oil Markets See Little Relief">

President Donald Trump and Iran's new supreme leader both struck defiant tones on the 13th day of the war, offering little relief to energy markets as Brent crude briefly topped $100 barrel despite fresh US efforts to curb oil prices.
The US president said in a social media post Thursday that preventing Iran from having nuclear weapons and threatening the Middle East is "of far greater interest and importance to me" than the cost of oil.
The Trump administration plans to issue temporary waivers for a century-old maritime law requiring American-built ships be used to transport goods between US ports as part of its effort stop surging oil prices, Bloomberg reported.
Earlier on Thursday, Mojtaba Khamenei said the Islamic Republic would seek to ensure the Strait of Hormuz remains effectively closed. In his first public comments since succeeding his father, he added that Tehran will look to open other fronts in the war if the US and Israel persist with their attacks.
Oil prices rose more than 10% on Thursday with Brent crude once again briefly topping $100 a barrel as traders generally viewed the Trump administration's efforts to lower energy costs as mostly temporary.
International benchmark Brent traded near $99 a barrel while US crude traded near $95 a barrel as of 12:03 p.m. in New York.
Iran has likely begun laying mines in the Strait of Hormuz, UK Defense Secretary John Healey told reporters. Iran's deputy foreign minister denied that his country was doing so, according to the AFP.
There's little sign that the war in the Middle East is anywhere close to a de-escalation after almost two weeks of fighting. Israel launched a fresh wave of large-scale strikes across Iran on Thursday, while the Islamic Republic stepped up attacks on Dubai and shipping assets.
Iran's new supreme leader, Ayatollah Mojtaba Khamenei, said the Strait of Hormuz should stay closed and new fronts in the war will be opened if the US and Israel continue their attacks. These were the first public statements made by Khamenei since succeeding his father four days ago.
"Studies have been conducted into opening other fronts where the enemy has little experience and would be highly vulnerable, and their activation will take place if the state of war persists," Khamenei said.
The new supreme leader, a 56-year-old hardline cleric, was appointed after his father, Ali Khamenei, was killed in early US and Israeli attacks on Feb. 28.
Dubai authorities reported at least two strikes Thursday morning after residents received missile alerts overnight, underlining the threat to the financial and tourist hub long seen as a safe haven. Kuwait reported several drones fired at its international airport, resulting in material damages.
US officials told lawmakers that the first six days of the war with Iran cost more than $11.3 billion, a person familiar with the matter said, in the most detailed assessment yet of campaign's expense.
The US and Israel have been attacking Iran with airstrikes since Feb. 28, triggering a response from Tehran that's seen missiles and drones fired across the Gulf. Besides jolting energy and financial markets, the conflict has resulted in thousands of flight cancellations and disrupted the flows of fertilizer and other goods.
Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz said the military is preparing to expand its operations in Lebanon, where it's been fighting a parallel campaign against the Iran-aligned Hezbollah militia.
Around 2,500 people have been killed across the Middle East since the war began, official tolls and those from non-government agencies show.
The Strait of Hormuz — through which about a fifth of the world's oil and natural gas flows — has been all but impassable since the opening salvos of the war. Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates all have had to curb crude production.
Ports in Oman and on the UAE's east coast — both outside the narrow waterway — are being used as emergency gateways for goods bound for the region. The US Navy could start escorting tankers through the strait by the end of this month, Energy Secretary Chris Wright said.
The International Energy Agency warned on Thursday that the current oil supply disruption is the largest in the history of the oil market, underscoring days of wild price swings. The war has hit 7.5% of global output and an even bigger swath of exports, it said.
On Wednesday, Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian gave the most specific comments yet as to what it would take for his country to accept a ceasefire. Tehran needs "firm int'l guarantees against future aggression" as well as reparations, he said on social media after speaking to "leaders of Russia and Pakistan."
Bloomberg reported that Iran is particularly concerned Israel will attack again after the current war ends. It's unclear if the US is willing to give Iran such a pledge and if it would be able to insist on Israel doing the same.
Back-channel talks between Tehran and US allies are nowhere close to finding a way to reopen the Strait of Hormuz, people familiar with the matter said.
"There's no plan, there's no endgame" for the US-Israeli campaign, Richard Dalton, former UK ambassador to Iran, told Bloomberg Radio. "It appears that as the ripples spread, the United States is losing control."
On Wednesday, Trump tried to reassure Americans and traders about energy prices, saying a massive release of a record 400 million barrels in emergency oil reserves approved by the IEA would ease price pressures. His comments and the announcement of the release did little to calm volatile markets.
The US national average cost for a gallon of gasoline is at $3.60, its highest since May 2024, American Automobile Association data show.
At least 1,825 Iranians have been killed so far, according to the Human Rights Activists News Agency. As many as 3.2 million Iranians have been temporarily displaced, the UN's refugee agency said on X.
Seven US service members have died. About 47,000 American citizens have returned to the US since Feb. 28, the State Department said Thursday.
There have been several deaths in Gulf countries and Israel. And some 634 people have been killed by Israeli strikes in Lebanon, which began on March 2, the Lebanese state-run National News Agency said.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Luciana Lopez, Stephanie Yang" newspaper="CNN" title="Oil prices stay high despite US temporarily lifting sanctions on Russian oil stranded at sea">

Oil prices traded near their highest level since 2022 Friday, shrugging off the Trump administration's earlier decision to temporarily allow the delivery and sale of sanctioned seaborne Russian crude – a waiver aimed at mitigating a surge in prices following its attacks on Iran.
The license, posted to the US Treasury website, applies only to Russian crude and petroleum products loaded on vessels as of March 12 and authorizes those shipments through April 11.
"To increase the global reach of existing supply, @USTreasury is providing a temporary authorization to permit countries to purchase Russian oil currently stranded at sea," Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent wrote on social media. "This narrowly tailored, short-term measure applies only to oil already in transit and will not provide significant financial benefit to the Russian government, which derives the majority of its energy revenue from taxes assessed at the point of extraction."
Brent crude, the global oil benchmark, fell 1.3% to just over $99 a barrel. On Thursday, it settled at $100.46 – the highest settlement level since 2022, when oil prices spiked following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine.
WTI, the US benchmark, dropped 2% Friday to trade at $93.70 a barrel.
Crude oil prices have surged since the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz, which is flanked by Iran and is ordinarily the conduit for one-fifth of the world's oil output.
Mohit Kumar, an economist at Jefferies, an investment bank, noted that Russia produces around 10 million barrels of oil per day, while the blockage of the strait reduces oil flow by 13-14 million barrels, "without accounting for the closure of oil and gas facilities in the region."
"However, Russia was already exporting to Asian countries," he wrote in a note, concluding that "it is not obvious" to what extent the easing of US sanctions will improve global oil supply.
The US decision to temporarily lift sanctions on oil from Russia, a major exporter, comes despite previous pressure on Russian oil companies as part of a bid to stem the flow of cash funding Moscow's war in Ukraine.
Global oil supply continues to be under threat. Iran has warned it will set the Middle East's oil and natural gas "on fire" in retaliation for any attacks on its own energy infrastructure.
According to CNN's reporting, US national security officials significantly underestimated Iran's willingness to close the Strait of Hormuz and the resulting risk of a global energy crisis. Now the United States is rushing to contain the economic fallout.
At least 16 oil tankers, cargo ships and other vessels have been attacked in and around the Strait of Hormuz, the Arabian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman in the past two weeks, according to the UKMTO, which monitors maritime traffic. Iran has reportedly been laying mines in the strait, and the US military said it had sunk 16 minelayers in the area earlier this week.
Nonetheless, in an interview with Fox News, US President Donald Trump suggested oil tanker crews in the Strait of Hormuz should simply "show some guts" and insisted "there's nothing to be afraid of."
Democratic Sen. Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire and ranking member on the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations criticized the latest US decision on Russian oil on social media.
"As Putin helps Iran target Americans in the Middle East, @POTUS is now filling the Kremlin's war coffers. Instead of squeezing Russia's faltering economy, the President's ill-planned war is giving Putin a windfall while American families face higher prices," Shaheen wrote.
CNN previously reported that the United States had granted Indian refiners a 30-day waiver to buy Russian oil currently stranded at sea. Bessent, at the time, said the move was "to enable oil to keep flowing into the global market."
As the historic disruption to energy supply persists, countries have scrambled to stem the economic impact by curbing consumption, capping fuel prices and tapping into emergency oil reserves. Analysts, economists and traders have warned that even a rapid end to the war won't necessarily mean a quick re-opening of the Strait of Hormuz.
On Friday, Goldman Sachs revised its price forecast 20% higher for Brent crude oil this year, expecting $100 a barrel in March and $85 a barrel in April, assuming a three-week disruption to the Strait of Hormuz.
However, if the closure extends to two months, that will push its end-of-year forecast from $71 a barrel to $93 a barrel.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-12" author="Elisabeth Buchwald" newspaper="CNN" title="Gas is just the start: What else the Iran war could soon cost you">

Ever since the US and Israel struck Iran, the jump in oil and gas prices has become a major focus for markets and consumers alike. But that's only the top of a long list of goods that stand to get more expensive.
With oil prices shooting up, the cost to transport physical goods around the world has already increased and is poised to continue going up the longer the war continues.
And because many businesses are already absorbing most of the cost of tariffs enacted by the administration over the last year, they have little wiggle room for them to assume higher transportation costs, said Brian Bethune, an economics professor at Boston College.
"If we see the persistence of these higher (oil) prices for a period of time, then you're going to see a persistent cost shock," he said.
Fuel surcharges already kicking in
Shipping rates are largely determined by diesel prices. For instance, a fuel surcharge of 21.5% kicks in for FedEx Ground and home deliveries when diesel prices hit at least $3.55 a gallon.
As of March 9, diesel cost $4.86 a gallon, nearly $1 more than a week ago, according to data from the US Energy Information Administration. This means a 24.75% fuel surcharge will kick in for the week ahead.
A similar structure exists across all major freight modes – air, rail and ocean – based on what fuel is used and the price.
Where consumers will see higher prices
Grocery stores are one of the first places consumers will see the effects of higher fuel prices – specifically the produce, meat and dairy aisles, said Deborah Weinswig, CEO and founder of Coresight Research, a supply chain and retail research and advisory group.
The less shelf stable an item is, the less companies can stockpile it – and the more vulnerable it is to price increases.
Outside of grocery stores, higher prices will take much longer to appear, Weinswig added. President Donald Trump's tariffs over the past year spurred businesses to build inventory before the new levies kicked in, meaning they have ample supplies on hand.
Getting creative
Businesses will likely explore other ways to deal with the higher fuel costs.
When the war between Russia and Ukraine broke out in 2022 oil prices similarly soared and compounded already-high inflation.
Back then, many businesses chose to shrink product sizes while keeping the same price — a practice known as shrinkflation, which is effectively a price increase.
But with consumers already starting to cut back on spending, businesses may have a harder time getting such disguised changes past consumers. That may lead them to resort to a more dire action to cut back on costs: laying off workers.
"There's no free lunch. It's going to show up somewhere," Bethune told CNN.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-12" author="John Towfighi" newspaper="CNN" title="Stocks fall and global oil reclaims $100 as Iran's new supreme leader vows to keep Strait of Hormuz closed">

Stocks fell and global oil prices settled at $100 per barrel for the first time since 2022 as the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz continued to roil markets.
The major US stock indexes each closed lower by more than 1.5%, extending a recent bout of volatility. The Dow fell 739 points, or 1.56%. The S&P 500 dropped 1.52%, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite sank 1.78%, as the war with Iran stokes fears of higher energy costs and disruptions to the global economy.
US crude oil prices surged 9.72% to settle at $95.73 per barrel. Brent crude, the international oil benchmark, rose 9.22% to settle at $100.46 per barrel. It's the first time Brent has settled above $100 per barrel since August 2022.
Oil prices climbed as an Iranian state television anchor read a statement attributed to Iran's new supreme leader, Mojtaba Khamenei, warning that the crucial Strait of Hormuz will remain closed as a "tool of pressure." The message also said that all US bases in the region "will be attacked" unless they shut down.
The Strait of Hormuz, the vital waterway off Iran's coast through which 20% of global oil consumption flows, has been effectively closed since the war began. That has sent oil prices soaring and dimmed the outlook for stocks across the globe.
"The implicit closure of the Strait of Hormuz remains the hinge factor for global markets," Felix Vezina-Poirier, chief strategist at BCA Research, said in a note.
Oil prices have been on a rollercoaster this week. Brent surged to nearly $120 early Monday, settled at $87.80 Tuesday and then surged Wednesday and Thursday to reclaim $100 per barrel.
Nerves about the Strait of Hormuz sent oil prices higher Thursday, despite the International Energy Agency on Wednesday agreeing to release 400 million barrels of oil into the global market to try and ease price concerns.
The Strait of Hormuz has become a flashpoint in the war, with US officials demanding it reopens and the Iranian regime doubling down on preventing business as usual.
US Energy Secretary Chris Wright said Thursday that the strait must ultimately reopen as the United States continues military operations in Iran.
"Now the Strait of Hormuz needs to be and will be reopened," Wright said on "CNN News Central."
Meanwhile, the IEA said in its monthly oil report Thursday that the Middle East conflict is "creating the largest supply disruption in the history of the global oil market."
US Treasury yields moved higher as investors recalibrated expectations for potentially higher inflation caused by higher energy prices. The 10-year yield rose to 4.26%, its highest level since early February.
The rise in Treasury yields impacted mortgage rates: The average rate of a standard, 30-year fixed mortgage was 6.11% in the week ending March 12, according to a survey of lenders by Freddie Mac released Thursday. That was biggest weekly increase since April, when President Donald Trump's "Liberation Day" tariffs caused bond yields to spike.
The US dollar strengthened against other major currencies, benefitting from safe haven demand. The US dollar index was up 0.5% and hit its highest level this year.
Wall Street's fear gauge, the VIX, jumped 10%, reflecting the heightened volatility in markets. CNN's Fear and Greed Index slipped into "extreme fear." Brent crude prices are up nearly 38% since the war began. US crude prices are up nearly 43%.
"For now, oil remains the primary market driver, with developments around the reopening of the Strait of Hormuz acting as either an accelerator or a brake on risk appetite," Adam Turnquist, chief technical strategist at LPL Financial, said in a note.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-10" author="Paul Burkhardt, Julian Lee, Anthony Di Paola, Elena Mazneva" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="How the Iran War Is Disrupting Global Oil and Gas Supply">

Oil and gas markets have been rocked by disruption to supply out of the Persian Gulf. Prices of both commodities have jumped as the US and Israel continue to strike Iran, and the Islamic Republic retaliates with missiles and drones across the Middle East.
Major energy infrastructure has been caught in the cross-hairs of the war. More significantly, tanker traffic through the Strait of Hormuz — a narrow waterway that handles around a quarter of global seaborne oil trade and a fifth of liquefied natural gas supply — has come to a near standstill. As the pause in Hormuz transits drags on, oil producers including Saudi Arabia are reducing output as storage fills up in onshore tanks and vessels at sea.
While oil prices have retreated after topping $100 a barrel for the first time since 2022, they're still higher than before the Iran war started. Should energy costs remain elevated, this could trigger a surge in inflation and squeeze economic growth, raising fears of stagflation. In Asia, which is particularly reliant on Gulf oil, governments are taking steps to help consumers with costs and reduce fuel demand.
What's at stake for the oil market?
Expectations in the global oil market have shifted from a glut of barrels to concerns about their availability. The Strait of Hormuz is a chokepoint for the bulk of oil exports from states around the Persian Gulf. Almost 90% of the crude and condensate transported through the waterway last year went to Asia.
A senior adviser to the commander-in-chief of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps told state television that Iranian forces "won't allow a single drop of oil to leave the region." Iran has targeted tankers, and while insurance to cover vessels can be found, shipowners and their crews have largely deemed the risk of passage through the strait to be too great.
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have some ability to reroute their crude via pipelines that avoid Hormuz. Iraq also has a conduit that runs from its semi-autonomous Kurdistan region to the port of Ceyhan in Turkey. But as energy infrastructure across the Gulf is caught up in conflict, Iraq has suspended exports via this route as a precautionary measure, according to people with direct knowledge of the situation. Kuwait, Qatar and Bahrain have no other option but to ship their oil through the Strait of Hormuz.
Amid concerns that the Hormuz logjam could lead to an energy crisis, President Donald Trump said that the US will provide insurance guarantees to vessels traveling through the Gulf and, "if necessary," the US navy will escort tankers. But the details of his plans are sparse, and traders and analysts still expect it would take weeks for flows to resume significantly. Countries are considering whether to release oil from their emergency stockpiles.
In the meantime, Asian buyers have turned to American barrels, helping push US crude export freight costs to record levels. Indian refiners are pivoting back toward Russian oil. They'd previously curbed their purchases from Russia under pressure from the US, but the Trump administration has temporarily eased sanctions on Russian crude already at sea so that India can buy these cargoes.
Are there impacts for oil beyond crude?
The supply of refined petroleum products is also under threat. Operations were suspended at Saudi Arabia's largest oil refinery, Aramco's Ras Tanura plant, following an Iranian drone strike in the area.
Prices of diesel, gasoline, jet fuel and naphtha — used to make plastics and road fuel — have all increased. Higher prices at the pump could add to domestic pressures for Trump and the Republican Party, as affordability is set to be a key issue in the US midterm elections later this year. Gasoline prices are one of the most visible signs of inflation.
In Asia, suppliers of shipping fuel to cooking gas are beginning to cut back on sales to manage shrinking stockpiles. China has told its largest oil refiners to suspend exports of diesel and gasoline, according to people familiar with the matter. Japanese refiners have asked their government to release crude from the nation's strategic petroleum reserves, people with knowledge of the matter said.
How is the Iran conflict affecting the gas market?
The market is at risk of its biggest shock since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine upended global gas trade and sent Europe rushing to find alternative sources. Gas futures in Europe nearly doubled in the days after the Iran conflict began, hitting their highest levels since 2023.
The Middle East is a significant supplier of LNG due to Qatar, which was the second-largest producer last year after the US. QatarEnergy halted activity at the world's biggest LNG export facility after it was targeted in an Iranian drone attack. The Ras Laffan plant accounts for around a fifth of global supply.
Most of the LNG exported from the Middle East is purchased by countries in Asia. If those buyers are unable to source cargoes from the Middle East — whether it's due to shipping disruptions or production outages — it will increase competition for LNG produced elsewhere and push up prices worldwide.
That would be bad news for Europe. While temperatures are starting to rise in the region so there's less need for fuel for heating, European gas inventories are currently unusually low. Europe therefore needs to import large volumes of LNG to replenish its gas storage before next winter — a task that will be more expensive if there's greater competition from Asia.
Egypt is also on the hunt for more LNG after Israel, from whom it receives pipeline supply, temporarily shuttered some gas fields as a precaution against Iranian attacks. Turkey's demand for LNG could increase as well, in the event that pipeline gas exports from Iran are interrupted.
US LNG producers could benefit from the disruption in the Middle East, but the gains will likely be limited as their export terminals are already operating near full capacity. New LNG facilities set to start this year can only partially replace Qatari gas, so some consumers may have to cut their usage or find substitutes — if they can.
How important is Iran to global energy markets?
Oil exports remain a central pillar of Iran's economy, despite years of the country trying to diversify its growth drivers. But Iran's influence in the global oil market has waned due to prolonged international sanctions, limited foreign investment and aging infrastructure. While it's the fourth-largest producer in OPEC, it only churns out around 3 million barrels of crude a day, equivalent to 3% of the world's output.
Around 90% of the country's oil exports go to China, largely to independent refiners, who are willing to buy the sanctioned crude at a steep discount. Other countries that have continued to purchase Iranian cargoes include Syria.
What are Iran's key energy assets?
Iran's oil export operations are highly vulnerable to attack as they're concentrated at the Kharg Island terminal in the northern Persian Gulf. In the weeks before the US and Israeli strikes began, Iran increased loadings of oil tankers at this facility, likely in an attempt to get as much crude on the water and out of harm's way from a potential attack.
The country's largest oil deposits are the Ahvaz, Marun and West Karun oil fields, all of which are located in Khuzestan province at the northern end of the Persian Gulf, bordering Iraq.
Iran's main refinery, Abadan, is in the same region and can process more than 500,000 barrels of oil a day. Other key plants include the Bandar Abbas and Persian Gulf Star refineries, which are closer to the Strait of Hormuz, and a refinery in Tehran. Fuel depots in the country's capital have been hit by Israeli strikes.
Iran's main natural gas fields are along the south of its Persian Gulf coast. Facilities at Assaluyeh and Bandar Abbas process, transport and ship gas and condensate for domestic use in power generation, heating, petrochemical production and other industries.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-03" author="Jack Farchy, Alex Longley, Devika Krishna Kumar, Jack Wittels, Ruth Liao" newspaper="Bloomberg" title="Trump's War on Iran Has Traders Staring Down an Energy Crisis">

For the past three days, oil and gas traders have watched as a worst-case scenario unfolded for global energy supplies. Tanker traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, through which a fifth of oil production flows, has all but ground to a halt. Iranian missile and drone attacks forced the closure of both the world's biggest liquefied natural gas facility and Saudi Arabia's largest oil refinery.
And yet while prices surged higher, the scale of the moves has been far smaller than in previous crises. Brent crude jumped on Monday, but only to its highest since 2024, while a 39% spike in European natural gas barely registered as a blip compared with the dramatic moves of the 2021-22 energy crisis.
US President Donald Trump's bet that a redrawn global energy map could afford him much more military latitude in the Middle East than his predecessors enjoyed is paying off: so far, traders are betting that the conflict will be relatively brief.
However, the near-unprecedented scale of the disruption means that an energy crisis is looming closer the longer it drags on. If the upheaval continues for more than a few days, traders warned, it could cause chaos across markets, upending supply chains and driving inflation higher. On Tuesday, with few signs of a resolution, prices ratcheted higher with European natural gas surging more than 40%.
"The Iranian regime is under existential threat and therefore they're prepared to do anything to get the world's attention to stop it," said Gary Ross, a veteran oil consultant turned hedge fund manager at Black Gold Investors LLC. "We've had a somewhat muted response but the longer it carries on, the more risk there is of higher prices."
For the seaborne gas market, the shutdown of Qatar's massive facility in Ras Laffan — which accounts for about one-fifth of global supply — is a more immediate shock. "This is unprecedented in the history of LNG," said Richard Pratt, of Precision LNG Consulting LLC. "As global LNG storage capacity is much lower than that of oil, a sharp rise in LNG spot prices is inevitable. The LNG chain has limited slack."
The Strait of Hormuz has long been a focus of obsession for oil traders and analysts — "a vulnerable lifeline," as the CIA described it in an analysis in 1979. While it accounts for less of global oil trade now than it did then, one in five barrels of oil in the world still flow through it. And its importance isn't limited to crude oil: it's also a critical conduit for refined products, liquefied petroleum gas, LNG and aluminum.
And yet, because it is so critical, it has become an article of faith in energy markets that the US and its allies in the region could never allow it to close for more than a few days.
That equanimity was rewarded over the past two-and-a-half years of Middle Eastern crises, in which military flare-ups left energy flows unaffected, and traders became accustomed to selling into any rallies in prices.
And so, over the past month as Trump ramped up threats to attack Iran, energy markets remained relatively calm.
The oil market was awash with crude, analysts argued; a gas glut was on its way; and more than two years of crisis in the Middle East without a major supply disruption had inured traders to the risk of war.
"Every time these geopolitical shocks have happened broadly it's been counted down within minutes," said Trevor Woods, CIO at hedge fund Northern Trace Capital.
Traders bought up options to hedge the possibility of a strike. On Friday, as the US evacuated embassy staff in Jerusalem, Brent prices rose to the highest since last July.
In the gas market, there was less concern, as traders assumed that key supplier Qatar would remain unaffected given its close relationship with Tehran.
"Oil seemed to be much more prepared," said Nadia Wiggen, director at Svelland Capital. "The gas markets were not even thinking about it."
When the first strikes hit on Saturday, traders cancelled their weekend plans and frantically began scouring for information on what was being attacked. It soon became clear that this was the big one.
Toby Copson, a portfolio manager at Davenport Energy, was in Shanghai at a polo stable helping his young son practice his swing, when his phone erupted. "It was one of those ones where basically everything lit up all at once, every single app," Copson said.
In the earliest hours of the war, oil traders were shaken by a report of a blast on Iran's Kharg Island, where the nation's key export terminal is located — though no further details emerged. A supertanker appeared to load from Kharg on Sunday, according to TankerTrackers.com Inc., a sign that at the moment loadings continue.
As traders pored over social media and news headlines, the real frenzy of activity was taking place at sea.
The US issued a warning recommending that vessels keep clear of military operations in the Strait of Hormuz and Persian Gulf, effectively branding the entire Middle East as a danger zone. From that moment, shipowners began scouring their contracts to see if they could back out of agreements to enter the Gulf. Hours later, Greece told its vast shipping fleet to stay away and warned them they may need to return to old-fashioned navigation methods — using eyesight and maps.
Traders began to follow the paths of tankers via their satellite transponders, tracing the routes of some that approached the Strait and then turned away. Then came attacks, with at least four commercial ships so far reportedly damaged.
"When the first missile was fired I think we had nine vessels that were on the wrong side of Hormuz, either sailing to ports of discharge or in that process," said Mark O'Neil, Chief Executive Officer of Schoeller Holdings, which includes Columbia Group, a major ship manager. "We're certainly not looking at any of the vessels passing Hormuz until the situation stabilizes."
Tanker traffic through the Strait was down 94% on Sunday, according to the Joint Maritime Information Center, which disseminates information to merchant shipping in the region.
By now traders were at their desks, ready to react to markets opening on Monday morning in Asia. Some had been trading over the weekend via online products designed for retail investors.
"On Sunday we were working throughout the day to stay on top of developments," said Orkhan Rustamov, founder and chief executive officer of commodity trading firm Alkagesta. "When the market opened on Sunday night, we were awake, looking, seeing where the price was actually going."
At the open, crude and diesel futures soared. The jump was so big that CME Group triggered a circuit breaker that kept the market in a pre-open state for the first two minutes of trading.
Monday brought more news of disruptions. Saudi Arabia's massive Ras Tanura refinery was halted; operations at a key oil terminal and refinery at Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates were suspended. And, most significantly, Qatar halted production of LNG at Ras Laffan after drones targeted the facility.
Yet while prices surged, they remained far below the highs of previous crises. Monday's jump in Brent crude of as much as 14% took it back to the levels of mid-2024.
European gas prices has surged much more dramatically, but only to the highest since 2023 — and roughly six times lower than the highs seen during the 2022 energy crisis spurred by the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
For some, that's an indicator of how the geopolitics of energy has changed. The shale energy revolution has transformed the US from a major net importer of oil and gas into one of the world's key exporters — adding swing capacity to global supplies and helping push both oil and gas markets into comfortable supply territory.
The shift has emboldened Trump's actions in the Middle East.
"The US is in a pretty good spot. You've got Venezuelan oil flowing, US production is still at all-time highs and the market is loose," said Woods of Northern Trace Capital. "I think they're like, okay, let's take those shots now."
The shale revolution is not the only thing that has made the Strait of Hormuz less critical for oil markets. Since the CIA wrote its report in 1979, pipelines have been built to give key producers some capacity to bypass Hormuz, while China has amassed a buffer of more than a billion barrels of oil in storage. Saudi Arabia can divert some of its oil exports away from the Persian Gulf by using the 746-mile East-West Pipeline that runs across the kingdom to a terminal on the Red Sea and is able to carry 5 million barrels of crude a day.
The UAE can likewise bypass the Strait of Hormuz to a certain degree, by leaning on the Habshan-Fujairah pipeline that runs from its oil fields to a port at Fujairah on the Gulf of Oman and has capacity to move 1.5 million barrels of crude a day.
Many traders said they doubt the Strait of Hormuz can retain its current level of disruption for long given historic US concerns about energy price impacts. Some in the market spent the day re-running scenarios that range from a quick resolution to a protracted disruption to energy flows through the waterway.
In the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s, the US navy escorted oil tankers through the Strait of Hormuz. Many traders believe that a similar intervention would be forthcoming to unblock the key shipping lane if the current situation lasts longer than a few days.
JPMorgan Chase and Co. said on Monday that if Hormuz remained in a state of de facto closure for more than 25 days, that producers in the Middle East will need to begin shutting in output.
A bullish case that saw a prolonged internal conflict in Iran disrupting oil exports, or a wider war hitting energy infrastructure could lift crude prices to $120 a barrel, analysts at Citigroup estimated. They said a bearish outcome would see a quick return to talks and dealmaking, pulling oil back to the $60s and even down into the mid-$50s. The bank assigned a 20% probability to both outcomes, underscoring the binary path ahead.
For the gas market, the shutdown in Qatar is the biggest disruption since Russia's invasion of Ukraine and perhaps the biggest unplanned outage ever for the industry.
The biggest issue with the gas market is that there is no buffer. Inventories in Europe are near a seasonal low, while Asian buyers, like Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, have enough storage to last for days to weeks if shipments totally grind to a halt.
Unlike the oil market, which has pent-up production capacity from OPEC+ producers, LNG exporters are all operating at nearly full capacity — even the US, the world's top supplier.
A Qatari assessment shared with Bloomberg News warned that if shipping lanes in the region remain severely disrupted by the middle of this week they would expect to see a more significant market reaction for natural gas prices than Monday's sharp spike.
"The brutal reality is there is virtually zero spare LNG liquefaction capacity in the world," said James O'Brien, head of LNG at D.Trading, a unit of Ukraine's private energy company DTEK. In a worst case scenario where Qatari and Emirati LNG is unable to be exported, "TTF doesn't just spike; it could gap up violently as Asia and Europe enter a 2022-style bidding war for remaining Atlantic supply," he said, referring to the European gas benchmark.
To be sure, the gas market today is in a far better place than it was in 2022, when Russia's invasion of Ukraine triggered a record-breaking spike in prices. The US has ramped up export capacity to a global record, China has developed its own gas resources and is buying more pipeline shipments from Russia, Japan has restarted nuclear reactors and emerging countries have far more coal available as backup.
For now, much focus is on the insurance market, where some insurers are putting exclusions on policies that withdraw cover if Hormuz is crossed.
Still, several participants in the war-risks market said cover was available but it would be extremely expensive — around 1% of the value of a ship. In times when there's little-to-no conflict, war risk rates can often be less than a tenth of that amount.
"Shipping will adapt, as it always does, but prolonged restrictions would test both logistical flexibility and global energy resilience," said Capt. Farhad Patel, director of Dubai-based Sharaf Shipping Agency.
"What makes the current situation more daunting is that it is not simply a rerouting challenge, it directly affects access to the Strait of Hormuz, which is one of the world's most critical energy corridors. When that artery is constrained, even temporarily, the impact goes beyond freight markets and into global energy security."
A disruption lasting any longer than a few days threatens to push up energy costs for consumers around the world — at a time when inflation is only just returning to target levels after the surge caused by the spike in prices after the Russian invasion in Ukraine.
Already, gasoline prices at the pump in the US have climbed to a three-month high in what could be a political headache for Trump and his party domestically as midterm elections loom later this year. The US has a plan to mitigate energy costs that it will put into action immediately, Secretary of State Marco Rubio said on Monday.
Different countries will be impacted to different degrees by the rising prices.
China imported about 30% of its LNG from Qatar last year, and it would be difficult to quickly replace if this drags on for months. However, the country has a lot of alternatives — like pipeline gas, domestic production and lots of coal. China also has teams of sophisticated traders, who have been negotiating procuring additional supply in crunch periods.
Over the weekend — before the Qatari shutdown was announced — Chinese traders at Cnooc and Sinopec were making last-minute calls to weigh up alternative supplies if flows were disrupted, traders said.
On Tuesday, China called on all sides of the war to "immediately cease military operations, avoid escalating tensions and safeguard the safety of navigation in the Strait of Hormuz."
Indian LNG importers and government officials have been in a state of panic since tension in the Middle East escalated over the weekend. The country receives about half of its supply from Qatar, and an extended shutdown threatens its energy security.
The Indian government has floated the idea of issuing instructions for the rationing of gas supplies, prioritizing household consumers over industries and refiners, the people said, who asked not to be named as the information isn't public.
Pakistan is the most dependent on Qatari LNG of any country — 99% of its supply came from Qatar last year, according to ship-tracking data. An outage of several weeks threatens debilitating gas shortages to households, power plants and industries. The European Commission is convening an oil coordination group in response to the crisis, a spokesperson said on Monday, but does not see an immediate security of energy supply concern.
Trump has said he may continue the campaign for several weeks. A prolonged disruption to energy would likely trigger emergency measures from consuming countries such as a release of strategic stocks, although Bloomberg reported on Monday that the Trump administration has no immediate plans to release oil from the nation's emergency reserve.
Still, the US may not feel the rush. As net exporter of gas and oil, it is less exposed than some of its allies — although domestic gasoline prices have also risen.
"The irony is that the US is largely insulated from a global gas price shock because of its own domestic production. Trump won't feel the domestic energy pain he would with e.g. a gasoline spike," said O'Brien at D.Trading. "The pressure point hits allies first and hardest."
Other economies stand to benefit — first among them Russia. In India, which has reduced its purchases of Russian oil under US pressure, some officials are already pushing for the government to seek a nod from Washington to ramp up buying again.
"Key questions are how much supply will be lost, for how long, and how do major powers react?" said oil historian and vice-chairman of S&P Global Inc., Daniel Yergin. "That a scenario capable of causing the greatest oil supply upheaval in history is even under consideration is, by itself, alarming."

</doc>
</docx>
<docx id="file38427345" filename="Finantial Articles XML - Mikhail.docx" parent_folder="upload">
<doc date="2026-03-09" author="Sam Meredith" newspaper="CNBC" title="Iran's strategic oil island thrust into the spotlight as Middle East conflict escalates">
Iran's Kharg Island, a small but strategically vital strip of land nestled in the waters of the northern Persian Gulf, has been left untouched by U.S. and Israeli forces even as the enters its second week.
The coral island, which is located about 15 miles off the coast of mainland Iran, serves as the centerpiece for Iran's oil industry.
It is estimated that around 90% of the country's crude exports pass through it before tankers then travel through the . The island is also said to have a loading capacity of roughly 7 million barrels per day.
Kharg Island's economic importance to Iran makes it particularly vulnerable to the threat of military action, although analysts say that any attempt to seize it would likely require a ground troop operation, which the U.S. appears reluctant to undertake.
An attack would also likely prompt further energy market volatility at a time when oil prices have soared to .
Seizing the island "would cut off Iran's oil lifeline," which is essential for the regime, according to Petras Katinas, a research fellow in climate, energy and defense at RUSI, a London-based defense think tank.
"Of course, with shipping via the Strait of Hormuz now stopped, they cannot sell oil anyway, but looking ahead, seizure would give the US leverage during negotiations, no matter which regime is in power after the military operation ends," Katinas told CNBC by email.
"Yet, seizure, would require a ground troop operation, which this administration seems hesitant to undertake. At least for now," he added.
Crude futures on Monday after the U.S. and Israel launched a fresh wave of strikes across Iran over the weekend.
The attacks struck several Iranian fuel sites, including oil storage depots, signaling a new phase of the war as the sprawling Middle East crisis continues into its tenth day.
International benchmark with May delivery traded nearly 16% higher at $107.18 per barrel on Monday morning, paring earlier gains, while U.S. with April delivery were last seen 12.5% higher at $102.1.
Fraught with risk
"If President Trump were to decide to seize this pivotal hub, it would deal a significant blow to the Iranian regime, as it would deprive them of a critical source of revenue. Such a move would be reminiscent of the at the beginning of the year, when it effectively took control of the country's oil sector," Tamas Varga, an oil analyst at brokerage PVM, told CNBC By email.
"While it might suggest the resumption of Iranian oil exports—under U.S. supervision, of course, and only if the Strait reopens—it would at the same time remain vulnerable to drone attacks from within Iran. An eventual U.S. occupation of the island would further complicate an already complex situation," he added.
Typically, about 20% of the world's oil and gas passes through the Strait of Hormuz, but shipping traffic has all but halted through this key maritime corridor since the war started late last month.
U.S. President may be tempted to order U.S. forces to try to seize Kharg Island for several reasons, according to Marc Gustafson, former head of the White House Situation Room, who previously served under presidents Trump, Joe Biden and Barack Obama.
These include the opportunity for Trump to claim a "big PR win," the chance to give U.S. troops a natural barrier from mainland Iran, and the fact that it fits with the president's push to secure maximum leverage over the Iranian regime.
Gustafson, who now works as the senior director of analysis at Eurasia Group, said that any such operation would be fraught with risk, however.
An attempt to seize the island would require U.S. troops on the ground and likely see it become a multi-week target for Iranian drones, Gustafson in a LinkedIn post last week.
He also warned it could push oil prices up even further and Tehran may even consider an act of self-sabotage to destroy the oil pipeline that feeds it.
"There is one concept or one dimension of this that no one seemingly has mentioned, which is Kharg Island," Jan van Eck, CEO of VanEck Funds, told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on March 2.
"It's where 90% of Iran's oil gets exported out of — that is a choke point. And if you think that Trump just follows the same playbook that he did in Venezuela. What did he do? He cut off their oil exports, their hard currency, and I think he is going to want that leverage point going forward," Van Eck said.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-08" author="Aniek Bao, Holly Ellyatt" newspaper="CNBC" title="U.S. orders staff to leave Saudi Arabia as war spreads, Iran rules out immediate ceasefire">
The U.S. government on ordered non-emergency government employees to leave Saudi Arabia as the war engulfing Iran widened across the Middle East. Iran also ruled out an immediate ceasefire while attacks continued.
The U.S. embassy in Riyadh cited heightened risks from armed conflict, terrorism and missile and drone attacks from Yemen and Iran. That marked the first such departure order issued by Washington in Saudi Arabia since the war began.
The Israeli military said Monday that it had begun a targeting the infrastructure of the "terror regime" in central Iran.
An Iranian foreign ministry spokesman claimed Monday that the U.S. was "after Iranian oil reserves" and aimed to weaken and divide Iran, according to comments translated by Reuters.
When asked about the possibility of a ceasefire, the spokesperson said as long as attacks continue, there is "no point to talk about anything but defense and retaliation against enemies."
It followed strikes on facilities Sunday, igniting fires and sending thick smoke over Tehran and the neighboring city of Karaj. The attacks appeared to be the first on the country's energy infrastructure since the war began.
Crude prices spiked above Monday morning after several Middle East energy producers announced . G7 finance ministers are set to discuss the possible joint release of emergency oil reserves amid supply concerns, the U.K.'s Treasury and French government confirmed to CNBC on Monday.
The surge in oil price followed days of disruptions in the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's most important oil choke points. Tankers have avoided the narrow waterway after Tehran threatened to attack vessels attempting to transit the strait.
U.S. Energy Secretary Chris Wright said Sunday that traffic through the Strait would resume once Washington destroys Tehran's ability to threaten shipping.
"The grace period that the market had in place for most of last week — assuming that this thing would not get out of control and start to spread with contagion to other parts of the economy — has clearly come to an end," said Clayton Seigle, chair in energy and geopolitics at CSIS. "We're probably going to have a crisis period for longer. The market ... is kind of scrambling to catch up."w
Iran's next leader 'unfortunate' pick
Iranian officials son of the late supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as the country's new religious and political authority, consolidating control over the Iranian Revolutionary Guard and other hardline groups.
Israel warned previously that any successor to Khamenei would be a potential target, while U.S. President Donald Trump threatened that a new leader in Tehran would be if the decision was made without his approval.
Former CIA director David Petraeus said Sunday in an interview with CNN that the new leadership pick was "unfortunate," as Mojtaba was seen as a "continuation of what his father was, which is a very hardline ideological cleric."
Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated Iran's new leader on Monday and pledged Moscow's "unwavering support" for Tehran, stating, "Russia has been and will remain a reliable partner of the Islamic Republic," in released by the Kremlin.
Trump is also reportedly weighing on the ground to seize Tehran's near-bomb-grade uranium, Bloomberg reported, as officials sought to verify the location of the stockpile of highly enriched material.
Shortly after oil surged past $100 Sunday evening stateside, Trump on Truth Social that a gain in "short term oil prices" was a "very small price to pay" for destroying Iran's nuclear threat. "Only fools would think differently!"
Equities in Asia plunged on Monday as investors rushed to reduce risk exposure over growing concerns that the fighting may last longer than expected, while fell over 2% in early trade.
Ukraine's interceptor drones
The ramping-up of hostilities comes after Tehran had earlier signaled its intention to ease tensions with neighboring countries. In a pre-recorded video released on Saturday, Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian Middle Eastern neighbors and said Tehran would stop firing at countries that weren't aiding the U.S.-Israeli operation.
However, Saudi Arabia said Sunday that Iranian attacks have continued. Riyadh warned that the attacks are based on "flimsy pretexts that have no basis in reality," leading to further escalation of tensions and harm relations "."
Iran has launched swarms of its to overwhelm the air defense systems across the Gulf, citing the presence of U.S. military bases and regional support for American strikes. The drones have also become a regular fixture of Russia's arsenal in its years-long invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that Kyiv had agreed to a U.S. request to send a team of experts and interceptor drones — far cheaper than the interceptor missiles — to protect American military bases in Jordan.
Other countries are also considering requests from Gulf nations for help in containing the attacks. Australia said it was from Gulf nations for defensive military support while reiterating that it would refrain from participating in offensive action against Iran.
China sent a special envoy to the Middle East last week to mediate a ceasefire. Its top diplomat Wang Yi reiterated Beijing's call for an end to the military action during a press conference Sunday, lamenting the conflict as a war that "
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-08" author="Garret Downs, Azhar Sukri, Emma Graham" newspaper="CNBC" title="Iran names Ayatollah Khamenei's son, Mojtaba, as new supreme leader, Media reports">
Iran named Mojtaba Khamenei its new Supreme Leader on Sunday, the Associated Press and Reuters reported, citing Iranian state media.
Khamenei is the son of the late Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in the opening salvos of the war. He was considered a top contender for the role. The elder Khamenei had ruled Iran since 1989 until his death.
Khamenei's appointment will hand him control of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard and other hardline groups.
The Revolutionary Guard issued a statement expressing support, the Associated Press reported, and the Iran-backed Lebanese militant group Hezbollah shared a portrait of the younger Khamenei on Telegram, captioned: "Leader of the blessed Islamic revolution."
The selection ensures that hardliners remain in control of Iran's government, and is a direct affront to U.S. President , who has insisted that the U.S. will have a role in approving the country's next leader.
Trump has previously referred to Mojtaba Khamenei as a "lite weight."
He earlier threatened that a new leader in Tehran would be short-lived if the decision was made without his approval.
"He's going to have to get approval from us," Trump told . "If he doesn't get approval from us, he's not going to last long. We want to make sure that we don't have to go back every 10 years, when you don't have a president like me that's not going to do it."
The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
The Israel Defense Forces, which is leading the Iran offensive with the U.S., said Sunday it would "pursue every successor and every person who seeks to appoint a successor."
"We warn all those who intend to participate in the successor selection meeting that we will not hesitate to target you either. This is a warning!" the IDF said in a in Farsi on X.
Gulf states bombarded
Iran's neighbors in the Gulf reported more damage to infrastructure over the weekend as Iran continues to attack regional allies in retaliation for ongoing strikes by U.S. and Israeli forces.
The United Arab Emirates said it was "dealing with incoming missile and drone threats from Iran."
"UAE air defences are currently responding to incoming missile and drone threats from Iran," the country's Ministry of Defense said in a on X.
It said its defenses were intercepting ballistic missiles while fighter jets were tackling drones and "loitering munitions."
On Saturday evening, alarms rang out across Dubai and Abu Dhabi, warning residents to "immediately seek a safe place" due to missile threats, and CNBC's team confirmed hearing a loud explosion.
A high-rise building in Dubai's Marina area, 23 Marina, was hit by falling debris. to Dubai's Media Office, no one was injured, but authorities that "debris from an aerial interception fell onto a vehicle in the Al Barsha area, resulting in the death of a Pakistani driver."
Also on Saturday, passengers waiting for flights at Dubai International Airport were ushered into train tunnels. Iran said it had struck an air base in the United Arab Emirates.
Since the war started on Feb. 28, Iran has targeted several radar and air defenses in the Middle East — in Qatar, the UAE, Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia — in retaliation against U.S. and Israeli attacks, , citing U.S. officials, military analysts and commercially available satellite images.
Oil tops $100 a barrel
U.S. crude oil Sunday evening after major Middle East energy producers cut output because the critical Strait of Hormuz remains impassable due to the war.
 soared 18.98%, or $17.25, to $108.15 per barrel by 6:12 p.m. ET. Global benchmark advanced 16.19%, or $15.01, to $107.70.
U.S. crude oil last week in its biggest gain in futures trading history dating back to 1983.
The last time oil prices topped $100 per barrel was after Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022.
The fighting in the Gulf has greatly disrupted the oil market due to the effective closure of the strait, which carries about 20% of global oil production. The bottleneck has left Gulf nations unable to export their oil.
Kuwait, the fifth-biggest producer in OPEC, announced on Saturday to its oil production and refinery output due to "Iranian threats against safe passage of ships through the Strait of Hormuz." The state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corporation did not detail the size of the cuts.
Output in Iraq, the second-biggest OPEC producer, has effectively collapsed. Production from its three main southern oilfields has fallen 70% to 1.3 million barrels per day, three industry officials told Sunday. Those fields produced 4.3 million bpd before the Iran war.
And the United Arab Emirates, the third-biggest producer in OPEC, said Saturday that it is "carefully managing offshore production levels to address storage requirements." The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company said its onshore operations are continuing normally.
In response to surging oil prices, the average price of gas in the U.S. has jumped to over $3.46 per gallon, according to , from an average of $2.94 a gallon a week earlier.
Trump and his Energy secretary, Chris Wright, that the spike in fuel prices is just a short-term problem.
"Short term oil prices, which will drop rapidly when the destruction of the Iran nuclear threat is over, is a very small price to pay for U.S.A., and World, Safety and Peace," Trump said in a Sunday evening. "ONLY FOOLS WOULD THINK DIFFERENTLY!"
Wright said earlier in the day that the disruption would just last for "weeks, certainly not months."
"We believe this is a small price to pay to get to a world where energy prices will return back to where they were," Wright said in an interview on "Fox News Sunday." "Iran will finally be defanged, and now you can see more investment, more free flow of trade, less ability to threaten energy supplies."
Desalination plants attacked
Bahrain said Sunday that a drone attack struck a water desalination plant.
"Iranian aggression indiscriminately attacked civilian targets and caused material damage to a water desalination plant following a drone attack," Bahrain's Ministry of Interior said in a on X.
In a statement to CNBC, Bahrain's electricity and water authority said the "Iranian attack on a water desalination facility has had no impact on water supplies or water network capacity."
The country said "blatant Iranian aggression" damaged a university building in the Muharraq area, injuring three people, as missile fragments fell.
Meanwhile, Iran has accused the U.S. of striking a desalination plant in its country. Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in a that the U.S. "committed a blatant and desperate crime by attacking a freshwater desalination plant on Qeshm Island. Water supply in 30 villages has been impacted."
"Attacking Iran's infrastructure is a dangerous move with grave consequences," Araghchi said.
U.S. Navy Capt. Tim Hawkins, a Central Command spokesman, told MS NOW that Araghchi's claim was false.
"The Iranian regime is doing everything it can to peddle lies and deceive," Hawkins said. "This is the same terrorist regime that has attacked 12 different countries and continues to deliberately target civilian airports, hotels, and neighborhoods in those countries. U.S. forces do not target civilians – period."
Fuel depots targeted
Elsewhere, Kuwait said two fuel depots at its were hit by drones, causing a "huge fire at one of them." The country's Public Institution for Social Security said its headquarters were targeted, resulting in "material damage" to the building.
Meanwhile, Israeli and U.S. attacks on Iran have continued through the weekend.
Israel said it struck several fuel storage complexes belonging to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps. "The strike significantly deepens the damage to the military infrastructure of the Iranian terrorist regime," the Israel Defense Forces said in a on X.
The IDF also said it "key commanders in the IRGC's Quds Force's Lebanon Corps who operated in Beirut."
Arab countries condemn Iran attacks
Arab foreign ministers on Sunday strongly condemned Iran's attacks on its neighbors as a "grave threat to international peace and security."
In a following their virtual meeting, the ministers expressed support to Gulf states, along with Jordan and Iraq, in the "measure they take to deter and respond to these aggressions."
The ministers called for Iran to immediately stop its attacks and cease "provocative acts or threats to neighboring countries." They urged the U.N. Security Council to condemn Iran and force it to "immediately and unconditionally halt its attacks" on Arab countries.
The ministers also voiced support to Lebanese government in its efforts to disarm Hezbollah, and urged the international community to pressure Israel to immediately cease its attacks on Lebanon.
The communique didn't mention U.S. and Israeli strikes, which triggered the war.
More U.S. service member casualties
The U.S. Central Command reported in a that another U.S. service member has died in action in the war, bringing the total number killed to eight.
The New York City Police Department said in a that Police Officer Sorffly Davius died as a result of a medical episode while deployed to Kuwait in support of "Operation Epic Fury."
On Saturday, Trump at Dover Air Force Base, Delaware, for the dignified transfer of six U.S. soldiers killed in the war in the Middle East.
The dignified transfer, a ritual that returns the remains of U.S. service members killed in action, is considered one of the most somber duties of any commander in chief.
"It's a very sad day," Trump told reporters on Air Force One as he returned to Florida later that day, saying that he was "glad we paid our respects."

Thus far, more than 1,850 people have died since the start of the conflict. At least 1,330 Iranian civilians have died and more than 100,000 Iranians have been displaced due to the conflict.
In Lebanon, 394 have been killed; 15 people have died in Israel; Kuwait has reported 11 dead; 4 people have died in the UAE; 3 have died in Oman; 2 have died in Saudi Arabia; and 1 person has been reported killed in Bahrain, according to figures compiled by MS NOW.
— CNBC's Spencer Kimball, Terri Cullen and The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report
</doc>
 <doc date="2026-03-10" author="Lee Ying Shang" newspaper="CNBC" title="As the Iran war upends energy flows, Russia is emerging as the real winner">
Russia is shaping up to be a major beneficiary of the war between U.S.-Israel and Iran, as higher oil prices and temporary sanctions relief boost the value and volume of its crude exports, analysts told CNBC.
The Middle East conflict has rattled global energy markets, sending oil prices sharply higher amid fears of supply disruptions in the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's most critical energy corridors. 
"Russia stands to gain revenue from higher oil prices, especially as the U.S. has relaxed restrictions on selling Russian crude to India," said Saul Kavonic, head of energy research at MST Marquee.
Oil prices surged over $100 per barrel on Monday as traders priced in the risk that conflict in the Gulf could disrupt shipments through the Strait of Hormuz, a chokepoint that carries roughly a fifth of the world's oil supply.
Even as oil fell about 7% on Tuesday after U.S. President Donald Trump signaled that the conflict with , prices are still around 27% higher compared to before the war started.
For Russia, which remains one of the world's largest oil exporters despite Western sanctions following its invasion of Ukraine, the price rally directly translates into stronger state revenues.
Henning Gloystein, managing director for energy and resources at Eurasia Group, said Russia has "already hugely benefited" from the crisis after Washington granted India a temporary waiver allowing it to continue purchasing Russian crude.
"Cargoes have been sold around $90 per barrel, so this is a large increase in price and sales volume for Russia," he said, compared to around $50 from before the Iran war.
Sanctions relief
Higher prices combined with looser enforcement of sanctions will allow more Russian barrels to remain in circulation, providing a short-term boost to Moscow's finances, said analysts.
Muyu Xu, a senior analyst at Kpler, echoed that renewed buying from India has helped lift Russian crude prices while clearing a backlog of cargoes that had accumulated at sea.
According to Kpler data, Russian crude held on tankers fell to 118.3 million barrels this week from 132.9 million barrels at the end of February, suggesting cargoes were moving to buyers fast.
If the crisis continues to constrain Gulf exports, the upside could be substantial. Gloystein estimates Moscow could generate tens of billions of dollars in additional state revenue as elevated oil and gas prices persist.
In addition to the temporary waiver granted to India, Trump is also reportedly weighing easing oil sanctions on Russia, .
Russia's advantage may also extend beyond crude oil. Gloystein said Europe could increase imports of Russian liquefied natural gas because there are currently no European sanctions on those shipments, at least until the European Union's planned phase-out takes effect in 2027.
Russia's ability to fully capitalize on the situation, however, remains constrained.
Years of sanctions and Ukrainian attacks have damaged parts of Russia's energy infrastructure, limiting the speed at which the country can ramp up production or exports.
"The benefit could be meaningful in the short term because Russia gains both from higher prices and from some easing in the practical enforcement of sanctions," said Carole Nakhle, founder of Crystol Energy. "But the upside is still constrained."
She added that shipping and insurance restrictions, as well as the concentration of Russian exports to a small pool of buyers such as India and China still limit how fully Moscow can take advantage of supply disruptions.
</doc>
  <doc date="2026-03-06" author="Mary Whitfill Roeloffs" newspaper="Forbes" title="Gas Prices Top $3.32 Days Into Iran Conflict—Here's The Latest"> 

Gas prices are up another 7 cents per gallon as of early Friday, marking a more than 11% spike in the past week after the U.S. and Israel began striking Iran, with more increases likely in the coming days and no true way to know exactly how high they'll go if the war drags on.
The average price for a gallon of gas in the U.S. topped $3.32 as of Friday, according to , already up more than 28 cents from
Patrick De Haan, Head of Petroleum Analysis at GasBuddy, said Thursday the U.S. average for diesel prices reached per gallon, the highest it's been since December 2023. 
It's caused distress in the White House, according to , which reported through an unnamed energy industry executive the Trump administration is "looking under every rock for ideas on improving energy prices, especially gasoline prices."
Costs will likely rise steadily as wholesalers increase prices to mitigate disruptions and stoppages in Middle Eastern oil and gas production; Iran it launched a missile attack on an American oil tanker Thursday, and the reporting an explosion on a tanker in Iraq. 
Brent, the international oil benchmark, resumed its surge and rose to nearly $88 per barrel on Friday after slightly pulling back toward $83 per barrel on Thursday. 
 have said the commodity could trade at or above $100 per barrel if the war drags on.
The last time oil prices hit $100 per barrel was after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, and prices at American pumps hit an all-time high of $5.016 per gallon by June. 
The U.S. West Texas Intermediate benchmark has also surged, jumping 27% this week to $85.7 Thursday—hitting a new 52 week high.
"Consumers really start to get concerned when the pump price goes above about $3.50 a gallon," Susan Bell, senior vice president at Rystad Energy, told . "We're not quite there yet, but we could get close in the next couple of weeks."
While Iran is estimated to produce less than 5% of the world's oil, it has major influence over the Strait of Hormuz, through which more than 20% of the world's daily oil demand flows. Iran has already fired on some ships in the strait and traffic through the passageway is at a standstill. While Iran can't shut down the strait altogether, violence in the region could cause vessel operators and insurance companies to suspend operations, which . Production at the Ras Tanura oil refinery in Saudi Arabia was Monday after a fire sparked by falling shrapnel from two Iranian drones, and QatarEnergy following an Iranian attack on one of its facilities Monday. Oil production was suspended at Iraq's Rumaila oil field, the country's largest, on Tuesday.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Susannah Savage" newspaper="Financial time" title="Iran war risks global food shock as fertiliser supplies cut"> 

The Middle East war is close to triggering a global food shock worse than that unleashed by Russia's 2022 full-scale invasion of Ukraine, experts have said, as fertiliser shortages threaten food production on multiple continents. Iranian attacks have knocked out swaths of Middle Eastern production of urea, the world's most widely used nitrogen fertiliser, while gas shortages have forced fertiliser producers across south Asia to cut output. That means that of the 2.1mn tonnes of urea — the world's most widely used nitrogen fertiliser — that would normally have been loaded for export over the past two weeks, about half has been disrupted. At the same time, more than 1.1mn tonnes of fertiliser and fertiliser inputs, including 570,000 tonnes of urea, is currently stuck in the Gulf, either being loaded or already on ships, according to Kpler data.

Nitrogen fertilisers, which underpin about half of global food production, are made from ammonia using natural gas, which has soared in price since the war began last month. The shortages have begun during the northern hemisphere's planting season, leading industry executives to warn of lower harvests for staples such as rice. If the disruption continues, "this will be much worse than 2022", said Veronica Nigh, senior economist at The Fertilizer Institute, a US-based trade group. "The longer the conflict goes on, the more dire the situation will become." The Middle East sits at the centre of global fertiliser and energy supply chains. About a third of global urea exports pass through the Strait of Hormuz, according to CRU. About 45 per cent of global sulphur exports — a key input for phosphate fertilisers — are also shipped through the vital waterway, which has in effect closed. Qatar's fertiliser company QAFCO shut its 5.6mn-tonne-a-year urea plant last week after liquefied natural gas operations at nearby sites owned by QatarEnergy halted because of the war. India has ordered fertiliser plants to reduce gas consumption to about 70 per cent of normal levels because of shortages. Plants in Pakistan and Bangladesh have halted output. In Pakistan, one of the country's largest fertiliser producers, Agritech Limited, had halted urea production, said people familiar with the matter.

Prices of crop nutrients have already soared, with the cost of urea up more than 40 per cent since the conflict began, according to CRU. Unlike the 2022 crisis — which initially centred on Ukrainian grain shipped through the Black Sea and was later compounded by energy and fertiliser costs — the current disruption is hitting several parts of the food system at once. The world was facing "a far worse situation than 2022", said Chris Lawson of CRU. Food and energy price inflation has become a political flashpoint, with researchers identifying an unprecedented wave of protests in 2022.   The global urea market totals about 196mn tonnes a year, of which only 57mn tonnes is traded internationally. That means disruptions to export flows in one part of the world can quickly ripple through fertiliser markets, Lawson warned. He said the situation could soon escalate, as producers can operate only while they have storage capacity for unsold cargoes. Long disruptions could force more plants to shut, potentially permanently. Restarting ammonia and urea facilities can take weeks because they require careful control of temperature and pressure. "Even a temporary spike in fertiliser prices can leave lasting scars on global food production," said Alvaro Lario, president of the UN's International Fund of Agricultural Development.
South Asian countries usually import large quantities of nitrogen fertiliser from Gulf countries
South Asia was particularly vulnerable, Lawson warned, as countries such as India, Bangladesh and Pakistan import vast quantities of LNG from the Gulf to produce fertiliser. Pakistan depends almost entirely on LNG imports from Qatar and the UAE, while Qatar alone accounts for more than 40 per cent of India's LNG imports and roughly two-thirds of Bangladesh's. India's fertiliser industry is also heavily exposed to gas markets: all 32 of its ammonia plants run on natural gas. Economists say consumers may face higher food prices well before fertiliser shortages affect harvests. Higher fuel and power prices pushed up the cost of moving, processing and cooking food, said Raj Patel, a food systems scholar at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs. "All of this means there is definitely going to be more hunger this year," Patel added.
Alzbeta Klein, chief executive of the International Fertilizer Association, said: "Some regions may be disproportionately affected, particularly those with large numbers of smallholder and subsistence farmers — notably parts of Africa and South Asia. "At the same time, countries that rely heavily on imported fertilisers are more exposed to potential affordability and availability pressures, and these are geographically spread well beyond those regions." Data visualisation by Martin Stabe
Alzbeta Klein, chief executive of the International Fertilizer Association, said: "Some regions may be disproportionately affected, particularly those with large numbers of smallholder and subsistence farmers — notably parts of Africa and South Asia. "At the same time, countries that rely heavily on imported fertilisers are more exposed to potential affordability and availability pressures, and these are geographically spread well beyond those regions." Data visualisation by Martin Stabe
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Joe Miller" newspaper="Financial time" title="Trump adviser calls for US to 'declare victory and get out' of Iran"> 
One of Donald Trump's close White House advisers has called for the US to "find the off-ramp" in its conflict with Iran, the first public signal of discontent over the war from a senior figure in his administration. "This is a good time to declare victory and get out," David Sacks, Trump's AI and crypto tsar, said on the All-In podcast he co-hosts. 
Such a move "is clearly what the markets would like to see", he added. The intervention from Sacks, a leading venture capitalist who has driven the administration's policies on artificial intelligence, came after Trump this month said the US could keep fighting Iran "forever". That prompted a backlash from prominent figures in his Maga coalition, who voted for the president in part because he pledged to end foreign wars.  
Trump has since told reporters the war could end "soon", but on Friday said the US had "obliterated every MILITARY target" on Kharg Island, Iran's crucial Gulf oil export hub. "For reasons of decency, I have chosen NOT to wipe out the Oil Infrastructure on the Island," Trump added. "However, should Iran . . . do anything to interfere with the Free and Safe Passage of Ships through the Strait of Hormuz, I will immediately reconsider this decision." In his comments on All-In, Sacks raised specific concerns about the consequences of further attacks by the US on such infrastructure, including the prospect of nuclear war.  "You are seeing a faction of people, I would say largely but not exclusively in the Republican Party, who want to escalate the war," he said. 
If more Iranian energy infrastructure gets hit, "they could continue to target the oil and gas infrastructure across the Gulf states . . . that would be a much worse outcome", he added. Further escalation "could render the Gulf almost uninhabitable", Sacks said, mentioning Saudi Arabia in particular. "That would be a truly catastrophic scenario." Sacks, a longtime critic of foreign intervention, who has opposed further US involvement in the war in Ukraine, singled out Israel as the biggest potential flashpoint. "If this war continues for weeks or months, then Israel could just be destroyed," he said. "Their air defences could become exhausted . . . And then you have to worry about Israel escalating the war by contemplating using a nuclear weapon." The intervention by Sacks, who is close to Elon Musk and several other tech billionaires, came as an account linked to Iran's Revolutionary Guard named US tech groups, including Amazon and Oracle, as potential targets. Sacks is also close to vice-president JD Vance, who Trump on Monday described as being "maybe less enthusiastic" about the initial strikes on Iran. The White House and Sacks did not respond to requests for comment.
<doc date="2026-03-12" author="Kate Duguid, Ian Smith" newspaper="Financial time" title="Investors slash Fed rate-cut bets as Iran war sends petrol prices surging"> 
Investors are slashing bets that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates this year, as the widening crisis in the Middle East sends petrol prices surging and threatens a fresh burst of inflation. Markets are not anticipating a Fed rate cut until summer next year, according to trading in federal funds futures. It marks a dramatic shift from just weeks ago when traders were pricing in two quarter-point cuts in 2026. 
The stark shift in Wall Street expectations highlights how the surge in energy prices caused by the war in Iran is prompting investors to rapidly rethink their outlook for inflation in the world's biggest economy. "This has been a wild shift. The market went completely mad today and decided to price out lots and lots of cuts," said Gennadiy Goldberg, head of US interest rate strategy at TD Securities. He added: "This enormous move . . . is a function of the market betting that it will be difficult for the Fed to cut rates while oil prices remain high." 
Petrol prices, which are a major cost for consumers, hit $3.60 a gallon on Thursday, compared with $2.94 a month ago, according to motor club AAA. The dwindling rate-cut bets undercut US President Donald Trump's hopes for the Fed to drastically cut rates to accelerate growth and lower borrowing costs for consumers. The Fed, which is due to meet next week, reduced rates by a quarter point three times last year. Still, the president on Thursday renewed his calls for Fed chair Jay Powell to slash borrowing costs: "Where is the Federal Reserve Chairman, Jerome 'Too Late' Powell, today? He should be dropping Interest Rates, IMMEDIATELY, not waiting for the next meeting!" Trump wrote on Truth Social. 
Investors have already moved to price out cuts, and price in rises, across a range of big economies, including the UK and the Eurozone, viewed as particularly vulnerable to energy-driven inflation. Short-term US government debt, which is particularly sensitive to monetary policy expectations, fell sharply in price on Thursday, sending yields higher. The two-year Treasury yield, which moves with interest rate expectations, rose as much as 0.1 percentage points to 3.76 per cent. One popular trade in the market that has been put under pressure are so-called steepeners: bets that short-dated debt will outperform long-term bonds. Instead, the yield curve on Treasury debt has flattened, with the additional interest rate on 10-year debt over the two-year equivalent falling from 0.7 percentage points in early February to just above 0.5 percentage points. Recommended News in-depthMonetary Policy Radar Iran war risks higher household inflation expectations John Stopford, head of multi-asset income at asset manager Ninety One, said the flattening represented the US bond market trying to price in "negative growth implications of higher oil prices and the likelihood of less accommodative monetary policy". Longer-term yields have also increased in recent days, something that has pushed mortgage rates higher after they hit the lowest level since 2022 late last month. 
The average 30-year fixed rate rose to 6.11 per cent this week, from less than 6 per cent in late February — denting one of the president's flagship pledges to improve home affordability. Despite market expectations that the Fed will refrain from rate cuts this year, some rate setters view the shock from higher energy prices as temporary. Christopher Waller, a Fed governor who is one of the more dovish members of the Federal Open Market Committee, said last week: "You're going to see a spike in gasoline prices, that's what the American citizens are going to see at the pump, and they're going to stare at it and be a little shocked . . . but, for us, thinking about policy going forward, it's unlikely to cause sustained inflation."
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-09" author="Malcolm Moore, James Shotter, Neri Zilber" newspaper="Financial time" title="Kharg Island: Iran's oil lifeline that Donald Trump has left untouched"> 

A tiny coral island in the northern Gulf is one of Iran's most sensitive targets, and one of the easiest to hit, but has so far been left untouched in the US and Israeli bombing campaign.  Kharg Island, a few kilometres long and around 25km off Iran's coast, has served since the 1960s, when it was built by the US oil company Amoco, as the country's principal crude oil export terminal, capable of loading up to 7mn barrels a day of oil. Its significance is hard to overstate. 

"The economy bottoms out without it," said Richard Nephew, a former US deputy special envoy for Iran. Military action to destroy or take control of the island's infrastructure would be hugely damaging to Iran, but risks deepening the war, triggering a further shock to energy markets and weakening any future Iranian government. With attacks on Kharg long a red line for Washington, how the Trump administration deals with this crucial export hub during the conflict could shed light on its longer-term strategy towards Iran. 

Because most of Iran's coastline is too shallow to accommodate the world's largest tankers, Kharg is a point of acute vulnerability: nine out of every 10 barrels of oil Iran sells abroad are loaded on the island. Its facilities are highly exposed: dozens of storage tanks clustered in the south, long jetties stretching into deep water to load supertankers on either side, housing for workers and a modest airstrip to connect it to the mainland. Subsea pipelines connect the terminal to some of Iran's biggest oilfields. 

The island was heavily bombed during the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s.  Iran has expanded the conflict over the past week with attacks on neighbouring countries' energy infrastructure, causing a looming crisis in the oil and gas markets. Israel on Sunday hit the main fuel depots in Tehran, igniting vast petrol fires and covering the capital in a dark canopy of smoke. But there has been no strike against Kharg. 

Instead, the terminal appears to be fully operational. Data from tanker tracking platforms suggests several supertankers have loaded there over the past week. While hard to fully confirm because of spoofed identification signals, analysts say on Friday night one crude supertanker appears to have transited the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow chokepoint at the mouth of the Gulf which the fighting has blocked for other vessels.
   
President Donald Trump said this weekend that he would now expand the focus of the US bombing campaign beyond military and nuclear targets, suggesting that new "areas and groups of people" could fall within its scope. The White House declined to comment on its strategy around Kharg Island, however. "My worry is that the US likes the idea of [a hit on] Kharg and then the gloves are off," said one energy executive in the region. 

Some Israeli politicians are also urging attacks on Iran's energy infrastructure. Opposition leader Yair Lapid on Saturday again called for Israel to "destroy all of Iran's oilfields and energy industry on Kharg Island . . . that is what will cripple Iran's economy and topple the regime". But Nephew, now at Columbia University's Center for Global Energy Policy, said an attack on Kharg would be a significant escalation. "The US and Israel are aware that if you hit it, you risk Iran really targeting the oil infrastructure of Gulf states, and if regime change is successful, it makes the successor government extremely weak," he said. 

"This does not mean it won't be targeted, but explains why it hasn't been yet." Some Trump administration officials have indicated the "long-term game" may be to ensure Iran oil reserves are in friendly hands. Jarrod Agen, executive director of the White House's National Energy Dominance Council, told Fox Business: "Ultimately, we're not going to have to worry about these issues in the Strait of Hormuz because we're going to get all of the oil out of the hands of terrorists." Michael Doran, a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute and a former US official, said Washington had long drawn a red line around Kharg, which was also carefully avoided during last year's 12-day war between Israel and Iran. While striking would economically wound the current regime, it would also hurt any future government in Iran. 

"The administration does not want to destroy the basis for a postwar Iranian economy," he said, adding that the White House also does not want to see any further rise in the oil price. Israel is also likely to abide by the US restrictions. "It is a longstanding American red line," said Doran. "Israel cannot permit itself to think outside the American framework." 

The Israeli and US militaries have so far divided the offensive geographically, with Israeli jets targeting western and central Iran, and US forces responsible for the Islamic republic's southern flank and territorial waters, which include Kharg. Recommended Oil & Gas industry The US is leaving an Iranian island untouched The threat of higher oil prices and the importance of maintaining relations with Beijing mean that the steady flow of crude from Kharg may remain unimpeded. The overwhelming majority of Iran's oil exports flow to China.  Doran said that only the most extreme scenarios, such as Gulf countries suffering heavy casualties from Iranian attacks and seeking retaliation, could draw Kharg Island into the current conflict. A person briefed on the Israeli operation said the objective of the campaign remained focused, and was "not to destroy Iran completely", adding: "The goal is to allow regime change." Additional reporting by Steff Chávez.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Malcolm Moore, Najmeh Bozorgmehr" newspaper="Financial time" title="The oil price war"> 

A viral Iranian propaganda video, shot in the style of a Lego movie, offered a glimpse this week of how Tehran is claiming victory in one of the main fronts in its war with the US: the oil market. Seven armed speedboats race towards tankers to close down shipping in the Strait of Hormuz. Financiers weep and shake as oil prices surge. Arabs look on in despair as crude sales collapse.  The video sequence and the real-life war, which has closed the strait and set tankers ablaze, reveal how soaring oil prices have become one of Iran's most potent weapons in a conflict that has also involved great human cost. "Energy markets are the battlefield in which the next phase of the conflict is unfolding," says Geoffrey Pyatt, a former White House energy adviser. "Iran is clearly playing to the markets now, in the calculus that this will put pressure on the Trump administration."

For an Iranian regime for which survival means victory, pushing oil prices up is a key measure of success against a US president determined to keep them down. The price is also influencing how the war is fought, prompting Donald Trump to declare the US effort "very complete" after oil neared a four-year high of $120 a barrel. In one of the wildest weeks in oil market history, Iran's ace in the hole has been its de facto blockade of the strait through which one-fifth of the world's oil and liquefied gas normally flows. At its narrowest point, the strait is less than 21 nautical miles wide, putting tankers perilously close to drones and missiles from Iran's southern coastline. Tehran now has near-total sway over the Gulf oil market, forcing neighbours such as Iraq to almost entirely stop production and trapping roughly 300mn barrels of oil and gas in the region, a number that rises by about 20mn every day. As of Friday, prices remained about $100 a barrel despite Trump and his western allies announcing the biggest-ever release of emergency oil reserves. With its new supreme leader, Ayatollah Mojtaba Khamenei, announcing his goal to keep the strait closed indefinitely, Iran has wrongfooted oil traders who had always presumed that US military might would keep the waterway open.

Iran has never blocked the strait before, despite its previous threats. Its decision to do so this month, together with its attacks on neighbouring countries' energy assets, is a mark of how existential a struggle the war has become for the country's regime. "The Strait of Hormuz has been Iran's most valuable leverage, and it has used this advantage to the surprise of many, even within Iran itself," says Hamid Hosseini of Iran's oil exporters' union, adding that Tehran's own exports were continuing. "If the conflict drags on, the world's reserves will be depleted." In recent days, Tehran has at times appeared to be directly addressing oil traders in Geneva and New York, talking up the potential of oil to soar to as much as $200 a barrel. The pressure on the Trump administration has mounted ahead of midterm elections in which his Republicans were already struggling with an "affordability" crunch now set to be stoked further by rising pump prices. The White House, which had taken a triumphalist approach to a war in which it wiped out Iran's top leadership on the first day, underwent a rapid mood shift on Sunday night as oil prices soared at the market opening. After a weekend of reports that some of the world's largest producers were being forced to cut production as the Gulf ran out of storage, oil prices raced higher in one of the biggest jumps on record, as the sheer magnitude of the energy crisis hit home.  "At about 6.05pm on Sunday the administration flipped from complacency to panic," says a person with knowledge of the White House response. "It was like the scales fell from their eyes and they realised they have a bigger problem than they thought."

On Sunday night, US officials backed a meeting of G7 finance ministers for the following morning to discuss the emergency release of oil reserves, a move that the White House repeatedly insisted was not on the table the previous week. An FT report of the shift helped cool the market, as did Trump's remarks about the war nearing its end.  At times, the administration has seemed willing to consider almost any means of bringing down prices, temporarily removing sanctions from 100mn barrels of stranded Russian oil to ease their sale, and promising naval escorts and extra insurance for ships passing through the strait. Members of Congress have floated ideas such as suspending federal taxes on petrol, relaxing environmental rules on fuel or temporarily banning US oil exports. Pyatt, who worked on energy security for the Biden administration, says most such suggestions would only help at the margins. In 2022, when oil prices surged on Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the Biden administration was able to manage the situation with "traditional instruments" such as releasing emergency oil, Pyatt adds. The dilemma now is that "this is ultimately a security issue and it is hard to solve a security issue with financial levers". As expectations fade for a swift conclusion to the fighting, the future price of oil is rising. As of Friday afternoon, a barrel of Brent crude cost roughly $100 for May, nearly $98 for June and $93 for July. Only by January next year does the market think oil will return to about $80 a barrel. Oil traders have even speculated the US government may try to intervene in the derivatives markets to bring prices down. "The administration manipulating the market is one of the key risks to our view of oil prices rising," says one hedge fund manager drily.

Such a move would be a "biblical disaster" if investors lost confidence in markets to set the price of such crucial commodities, says Terry Duffy, the chief executive of CME, which runs the world's largest oil futures exchange.  The market was also inflamed by an inaccurate post on X from Chris Wright, the US energy secretary, that claimed a naval escort had successfully accompanied a tanker through the strait. Prices fell sharply, only to rebound when the post was deleted.  "It seems the US administration can wander into the densely populated airwaves of social media and drop cluster bombs," says John Evans at oil broker PVM, adding that this is "the most market-savvy White House there has ever been", and that it would know that automated trading software would instantly react to Wright's post.  Wright has since said the navy was "simply not ready" to provide escorts. Warships might only be able to provide limited protection to a tanker convoy if targeted by unmanned drones launched in the sea, and the US military could be unwilling to risk exposing its warships so close to enemy territory. Ultimately, the only way for the US to bring down prices is to find a way to replace some of the losses, says Ernest Moniz, energy secretary during the Obama administration. "If I am Chris Wright, I have to put out oil, I have to get it into the market," he says. "If you cannot replace 10mn barrels a day on the market pretty quickly, I don't see how you tame the volatility we are seeing."  He argued that the problem of controlling the market was compounded because Israel's war aims diverge from those of its US ally, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu far less concerned about the price of oil. "What is crystal clear is that the objectives of the United States and of Israel are not fully aligned," Moniz adds. Israel's stance contrasts starkly with that of the Gulf countries dragged into the conflict. Reeling from the damage to their petroleum-based economies, they have, like Iran, complained of the economic cost of the war as they seek to bring it to an end. Both Qatar and Saudi Arabia have warned of the catastrophe that deepens with each passing day, as their oil and gasfields and processing plants become further damaged and take longer to return to normal. Daniel Yergin, vice-chair of S&P Global and author of The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, and Power, says that, because of their oil wealth, Gulf countries have more influence than they once did but also more to lose. "They are also big players now financially and in the global economy in a way that was not true even a decade ago," he says.  They are also acutely aware that if they are unable to supply the market for a prolonged period, it will open political space for more Russian energy to return to global markets. 

Gulf countries tried to warn the US of the chaos it would unleash by seeking regime change in Tehran before the fighting began, according to several people familiar with the matter. "I don't know how the US wasn't expecting it. They were warned. They chose to disregard the warnings and here we are," says Helima Croft, a former CIA official who is now an analyst at RBC Capital Markets. She adds that Gulf countries were "furious that this happened, they are furious with the Iranians and they are furious that the hornets' nest was kicked." But while there were US efforts to model the fallout, officials believed that the campaign against Iran would be short, perhaps lasting only a week, and that any jump in prices would simply be a "blip", as Wright told the media ahead of the strikes.  The White House has rejected the idea that it had been caught off guard. "No one was panicked then and no one is panicked now — this is a fake narrative that the media is peddling to sensationalise their stories," says White House spokesperson Taylor Rogers. "The president and his entire energy team have had a game plan to stabilise the energy market since before the operation began." Republicans have rallied around the White House, insisting it was braced for the fallout. "It is categorically false that they did not plan for Iran closing the Strait of Hormuz," said Montana Senator Tim Sheehy on Friday. "Lawmakers and national security officials have known for years that this was Iran's plan once their backs were against the wall." But traders have been confused by the president's mixed messaging on how long the conflict will continue, and how much he wants to bring prices down. "It is more important to me Iran is stopped than the high oil price," the president posted on his Truth Social network on Thursday, noting that the US was the world's largest crude producer. "When oil prices go up, we make a lot of money." 

The market is acutely aware that a return to normality could be months or even years away. "The industry is in shock. They know how difficult it will be to repair and bring fields back and restore equipment," says Yergin. "Energy supply systems don't turn on a dime. It takes time and investment to bring on new capacity of any kind."  Nor is the decision to end the war just in the hands of the US and Israel. Roxane Farmanfarmaian at the UK's Royal United Services Institute, a defence think-tank, predicts that the Iranians will continue to keep the strait closed and raise oil and gas prices for a significant period.  "Iran wants to be sure that eight months or 10 months down the line, once a ceasefire has been established, that the Israelis and the Americans don't come back. They don't want a third war. So they're going to push this to the point where the Americans cannot come back," she says.  Further escalation is possible. Yemen's Houthis, one of Iran's proxy militaries, have yet to enter the conflict and disrupt shipping in the Red Sea, through which Saudi Arabia is trying to redirect some 70 per cent of its exports, or target the kingdom's pipelines. Inside Iran, the regime is aware that the release of emergency reserves may cushion the pain for the global economy a few more weeks but suggests that it may even emerge strengthened from the conflict. "After the war, Iran will maintain control of the strait and could demand fees for passage," says Hosseini of the Iranian oil exporters' union. "No country will be able to challenge this. Iran has found a point of leverage that the US cannot effectively counter." Additional reporting by James Politi and Jamie Smyth This story has been amended to correct the spelling of Roxane Farmanfarmaian's surname Cartography by Steven Bernard

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-12" author="Najmeh Bozorgmehr" newspaper="Financial time" title="Iran's new supreme leader vows to keep Strait of Hormuz closed"> 

Iran's new supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei vowed to keep blocking the Strait of Hormuz and attacking US military bases in the region in his first public comments since his appointment. In a written statement published on state media and shared on his slain father's official website, Khamenei — who has not been seen and is believed to have been wounded — also hinted that Iran could seek to expand the conflict with the US and Israel. "The leverage of blocking the Strait of Hormuz should continue to be used," Khamenei said. "Studies have been carried out to open new fronts where the enemy has little experience or is vulnerable, which can be activated if the war continues and if deemed necessary."
 
Iranian attacks on shipping have made the Strait of Hormuz, through which about one-fifth of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas normally flows, almost impassable. This has sent oil and gas prices sharply higher and triggered what the International Energy Agency has called "the largest supply disruption in history". The statement comes after a period of silence from Khamenei, who was selected as Iran's new head of state early on Monday but has not been seen or heard from in public since the start of the war on February 28. His father, former supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed in a US-Israeli strike along with several family members including Mojtaba's wife, sister, brother-in-law and niece. His lack of public appearances had sparked speculation about his health and ability to assume leadership. 

Western officials have circulated unconfirmed reports that Khamenei, 56, has been injured in the war, including suffering a full or partial leg amputation. Late on Thursday Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu threatened Khamenei, saying he "would not take out a life insurance policy" on him or any other militant leaders across the region. In his first press conference since the start of the war, Netanyahu also said the Israeli air force would continue striking Iranian paramilitaries in a bid to "create the conditions" for the toppling of the Islamic republic. But he conceded that regime change ultimately "was in the hands of the Iranian people". Khamenei, in his written address, did not address rumours about his health but confirmed his relatives had joined "the caravan of martyrs". He vowed to seek revenge not only for his father but for others, including the more than 100 schoolchildren killed in what evidence suggests was a US air strike on a primary school in southern Iran. "We will seek in any possible way compensations for the war," Khamenei said, offering no clarity on how Iran would pursue these actions. "If they refuse, we will take away from their assets as much as we deem necessary or we will destroy their assets." 

The new leader is also considered a target for the US and Israeli military, with President Donald Trump suggesting that Iran's next supreme leader would not "last long" without Washington's approval. Khamenei also reaffirmed the regime's plan to keep up attacks on US military bases in the region. "There is no other choice" but to continue these strikes, he said. Since the war started, Iranian missiles and drones have also targeted civilian and energy infrastructure in the Gulf and elsewhere in the region, provoking outrage from Iran's neighbours.

Khamenei, however, claimed the Islamic republic was ready for "intimate, warm relations" with regional countries. He expressed gratitude to the "resistance front" of Iran-backed, anti-Israel proxy groups, including militias in Yemen, Lebanon's Hizbollah and Iraqi militias, calling them "our best friends" and an inseparable part of Iran's Islamic revolution values. 

Khamenei was appointed by a constitutional body called the Assembly of Experts, but details surrounding the voting  process and his presence during the selection remain unclear. No information has been disclosed about where or how the assembly of 88 senior clerics convened.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Vali Nasr" newspaper="Financial time" title="Iran is playing a long game"> 

The writer, a professor at Johns Hopkins University, is the author of 'Iran's Grand Strategy' Two weeks into the war, Iran's strategy is coming into sharper focus. It initially set out to absorb American and Israeli strikes while retaliating against Israeli cities and US bases with drones and missiles in an attempt to deplete their stockpiles of interceptors. The long-term plan was to preserve larger and more lethal missiles for the second phase of the war. But Iran has also deployed a parallel — and potentially more effective — strategy: waging war on the global economy. Iranian missiles and drones attacked oil and natural gas facilities in Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE along with oil tankers in the Gulf, and restricted passage through the Strait of Hormuz, in effect closing it and leading to spikes in oil prices. In his State of the Union address on February 24, days before the war started, US President Donald Trump barely mentioned Iran. But he dwelled extensively on gas prices, inflation and the state of the economy. Iranians understand that bombs and missiles may go unnoticed by many Americans, but gas prices and inflation will not. They have been proved right. As the conflict spread to the Gulf, energy prices surged, rattling global markets. Although Iran had warned of exactly such a scenario, the US was caught off-guard. Its unpreparedness only accentuated fear of an impending crisis. But Iran is not going after energy supplies alone. Its drones and missiles have deeply impacted other vital industries in the Gulf, from tech companies to airlines. It has attacked Amazon's data centres, Dubai's airport and port facilities in a number of Gulf countries. Disruption to shipping through the Strait of Hormuz also impacts container traffic carrying commodities and industrial products such as petrochemicals and the fertiliser necessary for agriculture. In war, geography matters as much as technology. Iran commands the entire northern shore of the Gulf, looming large over energy fields on its southern shore and all that passes through its waters. Its Houthi allies are perched at the entrance to the Red Sea and along the passage to the Suez Canal; Iran is thus perfectly positioned to squeeze the global economy from both sides of the Arabian Peninsula. Those in command of Iran today are veterans of asymmetric wars in Iraq and Syria. They are now applying the same strategy to fighting the US on the battlefield of the global economy. Drones, short-range missiles and mines setting tankers and ports on fire can have the same effect IEDs had in Iraq, only with greater impact — disrupting global supply chains and sending oil prices higher. Iran's missile attacks against a depleting stock of Israeli interceptors helped push the US and Israel towards a ceasefire the last time the two attacked in June 2025. Waging war on the global economy could, however, produce a different outcome this time. Iran could sustain its counteroffensive more easily and for far longer. Furthermore, a ceasefire alone will not lift the shadow of risk that Iran has imposed over the Gulf, which is now experiencing its nightmare scenario. That is why Iranian leaders are saying they will not accept a ceasefire until Washington fully grasps the global economic cost of waging this war. Businesses, investors and tourists may not return to the Gulf states if they assume that war could resume again. Unless the US is prepared to invade Iran to remove the Islamic republic's leaders and then stay there to ensure stability and security, confidence in the Gulf will only return if the US and Iran arrive at a durable ceasefire. The pressure is building on Washington to seek one. It is not just Gulf states that want an end to the fighting, but also countries across Asia, Africa and even Europe, all of which fear serious economic crises unless the fighting stops soon. In recent days, the US and Israel have increased the pace and intensity of their bombing campaign on the assumption that they can force Iran to collapse or surrender. The Iranian regime is in turn prepared to wage asymmetric warfare on the global economy for long enough to persuade Washington to view a political settlement as the only option. Iran says it will only accept a ceasefire with international guarantees for its sovereignty, which would probably mean a direct role for Russia and China. It may also demand compensation for war damages and a verifiable ceasefire in Lebanon. The US would then have to agree to some form of the nuclear deal it left on the table in Geneva in February and commit to lifting sanctions. Iran's leaders entered this war with the goal of ensuring it will be the last one. Either it breaks them or radically changes the country's circumstances. They are betting on surviving long enough and squeezing the global economy hard enough to realise that goal.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Katie Martin" newspaper="Financial time" title="Are markets being too complacent about the Iran war?"> 

A senior bond trader in London admitted something unusual to me the other day: he's scared. It takes a lot to spook really seasoned bankers who have survived more than their fair share of market crises and who know better than to panic. But the current market environment is deeply unnerving for him, not because the financial system is in freefall, but because it's not. Markets are, of course, on edge. The US-Israeli war on Iran has cranked the oil price higher and knocked both stocks and government bonds off their perch. Some arcane corners of the market ecosystem, like Korean stocks and short-term European government debt, have taken heavy blows and at times, bond trading has faced small interruptions. Still, the key thing is how orderly it all is. This is alarming, the trader said. "There's a degree of complacency. My biggest fear is the market is still working under the assumption that this will not get out of control." Everything hinges on whether the oil price sticks roughly where it is — $100 or so a barrel — or bolts even higher. Fund managers are looking to oil traders for answers. Oil traders are looking to geopolitical experts. Geopolitical experts are tracking the volley of contradictory statements from US officials, and wondering where Donald Trump's limit on the oil price really lies. All of them are coming up with the same conclusion: we don't know.  The key danger, of course, is that unlike the shock of supersized worldwide US trade tariffs nearly a year ago, Trump is not able to switch this off. Iran can very easily choke off global supplies of oil by keeping the Strait of Hormuz blocked, and its new leader, Motjaba Khamenei, has said he wants to do exactly that. Can he? Again, we don't know.

This leaves investors dealing with scenarios rather than forecasts. Generally, oil at $120 to $130 a barrel is seen as a serious pain point for the global economy. Now, though, in a worst-case scenario, that could be just the start. "We have got economists modelling for $200," said Kristina Hooper, chief market strategist at hedge fund group Man. "To me, markets are mispricing this. Orderly markets are masking vulnerabilities."  Part of the problem is that history is at best a faulty guide. After all, Brent crude rushed as high as $139 a barrel in the surge after Covid and Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022, and even higher in the Chinese economic growth surge before the financial crisis hit in 2008. We're not even there yet, and we have not witnessed a near quadrupling in the oil price that was recession-inducing in the 1970s. Instead, we have something similar but different. In fact, this is the case across several big strains in financial markets today. "In geopolitics, this is not the 1970s," said Anton Eser, chief investment officer at Dutch asset manager Robeco. "In AI, this is not the dotcom boom. In private credit, this is not 2008." He's right. But we do have, he said, "a bit of each . . . That's still not great." And "you never have any idea what the trigger is" to flip investors from anxious to panicky. It is well worth remembering that, pressing though the war in Iran is, it is not the only matter on investors' minds. Doubts remain over whether AI represents an asset price bubble or a job-munching efficiency machine, or possibly even both, but we do know that the latest employment data from the US painted a worrying picture.  On private credit, the alarming headlines just keep on coming. Bad due diligence and lavish lending may still prove to be a feature rather than a bug of this industry, and news of funds blocking the exits of investors who want to get out is never a good look.

But perhaps the most alarming historical analogy is the most recent: the Covid crash of 2020. Then, crisis hit, markets recoiled and investors assumed the stress would quickly pass. Virus concerns were "fading", sharp-suited Wall St analysts assured us, just a couple of weeks before disaster really struck. (As I noted at the time, the light at the end of the tunnel can turn out to be a train.) In March 2020, with markets spiralling lower, the US slashed interest rates to zero on a Sunday night. The next day, US stocks dropped another 12 per cent. It is not necessarily the case that we are in a similar Wile E Coyote moment now, dangling in the air waiting for gravity to strike. Hope springs eternal for a meaningful reopening of the Strait of Hormuz, and more importantly for peace in the Middle East. We do know one thing for sure, though: investors always think crises will blow over, and sometimes they don't. 

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Ryohtaroh Satoh" newspaper="Financial time" title="Gulf states lose $15bn in energy revenues since start of war"> 

Gulf oil producers have lost an estimated $15.1bn in energy revenues since the start of US and Israeli strikes on Iran, with millions of barrels of crude trapped by the near-shutdown of the Strait of Hormuz.  According to estimates by commodities analytics firm Kpler, the strait typically carries about $1.2bn worth of crude oil, refined products and liquefied natural gas each day, based on average prices and volumes in 2025.  Since the conflict escalated on February 28, traffic through the critical shipping route has largely stopped, with Iran attacking vessels and insurance premiums soaring.  The total lost revenue lays bare the financial cost of the war for Gulf states that are heavily reliant on commodity sales to fund their governments.  The waterway now sees only "negligible" flows compared with prewar levels, said Florian Gruenberger of Kpler. Among the halted shipments, crude oil accounted for the largest share, representing 71 per cent of the value.  Saudi Arabia, as the largest oil exporter, has lost out the most, with the kingdom estimated to have missed out on $4.5bn since the war started according to Wood Mackenzie, though the kingdom is planning to significantly raise exports from the Red Sea in the coming days.  Peter Martin, head of economics at Wood Mackenzie, said Iraq was among the most exposed as it relies on oil production for 90 per cent of government revenues.  "Kuwait and Qatar are also highly exposed, but both can call on large sovereign wealth funds to buffer the short-term impact," he added. 

At least $10.7bn worth of crude, refined oil products and LNG cargoes remained stranded inside the Strait of Hormuz, loaded but unable to reach their destinations, Kpler said. Some of the cargoes had already been sold under prewar long-term contracts, meaning they may still generate revenue, depending on the payment timing, which is typically 15 to 30 days after loading. The impact of the disruption may vary between producers. Antoine Halff, co-founder of satellite analytics company Kayrros, said Saudi Arabia may be better positioned to absorb the disruption than Iraq, which he expects to suffer more severe losses.

Saudi Arabia also holds oil in overseas storage facilities and could continue supplying customers for a period, while also benefiting from higher prices that may partly offset lost export revenue, Halff said. Ultimately, he added, it is motorists and other end consumers who are likely to bear the brunt of the price impact. While state-backed Saudi Aramco has said it could reroute about 70 per cent of crude shipments from its eastern oilfields to the Red Sea through its east-west pipeline, analysts warn the system has never operated at that level of capacity. Wood Mackenzie estimates that Gulf oil producers — including Saudi Arabia, Iraq, the UAE, Kuwait and Bahrain — have collectively deferred sales and tax revenue of $13.3bn for oil. Wood Mackenzie estimates that QatarEnergy, Qatar's state-owned energy company, had lost about $571mn in revenue by Wednesday after halting production on March 2, excluding any losses from delays to planned expansions or new plants.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Antonio Pequeño IV" newspaper="Forbes" title="Markets End Another Week Down—Dropping Over 1%—As Oil Still Above $100 Amid Iran War"> 

TOPLINE
All three major U.S. indexes slid at least 1.3% this week as the U.S. and Israel continue a war with Iran, which has also sent the price of crude oil surging over 7% since Monday.
KEY FACTS
The Dow Jones Industrial Average had the largest dip of any of the indexes this week, falling nearly 2% to its lowest point since November.

The S&P 500 dropped 1.6% in the last five days of trading, capping off almost two full weeks of losses as Meta, one of the highest ranking S&P stocks by weight, dropped over 4% on Friday.

Following an abysmal Friday in which it fell almost one percentage point, the Nasdaq recorded a 1.3% slide in the last week of trading, nearly logging its lowest point since October.

The price for a barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil, which skyrocketed to $119 and quickly cooled off early this week, is creeping toward the $100 mark again while Brent Crude Oil nearly reached $103 per barrel Friday.

The poor run of trading wraps up the week as the U.S. has of additional troops to the Middle East, where President Donald Trump has not ruled out boots on the ground.
BIG NUMBER
$3.65. That is the average price for a gallon of gas in the U.S. as of Friday, according to data. That is an approximately 27% increase in prices from the day the U.S. and Israel launched their initial strikes against Iran at the end of February.
SURPRISING FACT
The Dow Jones has fallen nearly 6% in the last month of trading, far exceeding losses recorded by the S&P 500 (3%) and Nasdaq (2%) and in that same period.
KEY BACKGROUND
Trump said earlier in the conflict he was not concerned about rising gas prices, predicting the surge will be short-term. This week, the president shifted his message around oil, saying in a Truth Social post, "When oil prices go up, we make a lot of money." It is not clear who Trump was referring to when he said "we," as the national average price for a gallon of gas threatens to reach above $4 for consumers within the next month. The president initially said the war against Iran could take four to five weeks and has since insisted the war was "very complete." While Iran has made clear it is prepared to fight a long-term battle, the U.S. has bolstered its military presence in the Middle East with the deployment of the 31st Marine Expeditionary Unit on Friday. The unit contains around 2,200 Marines capable of carrying out ground operations, which have not yet been given a green light to do so as Trump keeps his military options open.
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Mike Stunson" newspaper="Forbes" title="Trump Urges China, UK And Other Countries To Send Warships To Strait Of Hormuzr"> 

TOPLINE
President Donald said Saturday the United States will get the strategic Strait of Hormuz open "one way or another," claiming in a Truth Social post that Iran has been "totally decapitated" after the U.S. targeted an oil-rich island the previous night.
KEY FACTS
 said the Friday night "large-scale precision strike" on Kharg Island "destroyed naval mine storage facilities, missile storage bunkers and multiple other military sites," sparing the island's oil infrastructure.

There were at least 15 explosions heard on the island, according to the I, which said its oil infrastructure did not incur damage, but said "all oil and gas infrastructure in the region in which the U.S. and its allies have interests will be set on fire and destroyed" if there is an attack on its oil supply. 

President Donald called the series of attacks among "the most powerful bombing raids in the history of the Middle East," writing on Truth Social that every military target on the island was "totally obliterated."

He said he would reconsider his decision to spare the island's oil infrastructure if the Strait of Hormuz continues to be disrupted, later writing that the U.S. would continue "bombing the hell out of" Iran's shoreline as the war intensifies.

There were no reports of casualties during the strikes, with Iranian saying the island's oil terminal remained "fully operational." 

The attacks came as oil and gas prices have surged since the beginning of the war, with crude oil up to around $98 per barrel and in the United States climbing to a national average of $3.67.
TRUMP CALLS ON COUNTRIES TO SEND SHIPS TO STRAIT OF HORMUZ
In his Saturday morning post, the president said "many countries" will send warships to the Strait of Hormuz to counter Iran's closure of the waterway, but he did not say which countries would do so. "Hopefully China, France, Japan, South Korea, the UK, and others, that are affected by this artificial constraint, will send ships to the area," he said. Those countries, however, have shown hesitancy in deploying their militaries to Iran. , where most of Iran's oil is exported to, was reportedly in talks with Iran earlier in the week to allow the safe passage of crude oil through the strait, as is .
WHAT TO KNOW ABOUT KHARG ISLAND
About 90% of Iran's oil exports are housed in Kharg Island, according to , which said Iran has been heavily dependent on the island for its oil exports since the 1960s. Considered the "undisputed economic backbone of Iran," Kharg Island handles about 950 million oil barrels annually, reported. Exports travel from Kharg Island through the Strait of Hormuz, but the strait has mostly been closed for shipping since the war began in late February. A 1984 document cites the island's facilities as "the most vital in Iran's oil system, and their continued operation is essential to Iran's economic well-being." If the oil infrastructure were to be attacked, oil prices will skyrocket "and harden Iran's stance on creating chaos in the Strait," according to Patrick , head of petroleum analysis at GasBuddy.
SURPRISING FACT
"One bullet shot at one of our men or ships and I'd do a number on Kharg Island," Trump said in a 1988 interview to when revealing his presidential desires. "I'd go in and take it. Iran can't even beat Iraq, yet they push the United States around. It'd be good for the world to take them on."
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Jamie Smyth, Malcolm Moore" newspaper="Financial time" title="US oil groups in line for $63bn windfall from Gulf war disruption"> 

US oil companies stand to receive a windfall of more than $60bn this year if crude prices maintain the levels they have hit since the start of the Iran war. Modelling by investment bank Jefferies estimates American producers will generate an extra $5bn cash flow this month alone following a roughly 47 per cent rise in oil prices since the conflict began on February 28. If US oil prices remain elevated and average $100 a barrel this year, the companies will receive a $63.4bn boost from oil production, according to energy research company Rystad. As Brent crude prices surged past $100 on Thursday, President Donald Trump boasted in a social media post: "The United States is the largest Oil Producer in the World, by far, so when oil prices go up, we make a lot of money." West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, settled at $98.71 a barrel on Friday. The extra cash flow should benefit US shale companies, which have limited operations in the Middle East. But the picture is more complicated for the largest international oil companies. ExxonMobil and Chevron, as well as European rivals BP, Shell and TotalEnergies, have widespread assets in the Gulf and are more affected by the closure of the Strait of Hormuz.

Production has been shut at several facilities in which some of the five "supermajors" have equity stakes, forcing Shell to declare force majeure on liquefied natural gas cargoes they planned to ship from QatarEnergy's Ras Laffan plant. The challenges of operating in the region were underlined on Thursday when SLB, formerly known as Schlumberger and the world's largest oil services company, issued a profit warning. Martin Houston, an oil industry veteran and chair of Omega Oil and Gas, said: "There are no winners in this situation — and it certainly isn't the international oil companies. They would rather the status quo from two weeks ago than a crisis that temporarily raises oil prices." "National oil companies in the Middle East and their partners will have to rebuild damaged infrastructure. But the real concern is . . . the unprecedented closure of the strait, even for a short period." A speedy resolution to the crisis does not appear close. Iran's new supreme leader, Mojtaba Khamenei, on Thursday said the nation's military would keep the narrow waterway that carries a fifth of the world's oil and gas closed as he seeks to build leverage against the US and Israel. About 18mn of the 20mn barrels of oil that normally pass through the waterway each day remain blocked, according to research by Goldman Sachs. The shock is more dramatic for the LNG industry, with about a fifth of global production halted. RBC Capital Markets on Friday said it expected the conflict to drag on into the spring and that Brent crude prices could exceed $128 a barrel within three to four weeks. Rystad's Thomas Liles said: "The closure of the strait will hurt Middle Eastern national oil companies, while the [western] oil majors — who account for around 20 per cent of total upstream production from Qatar, UAE, Iraq and the neutral zone [the land between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait] — could also see material impacts." BP and Exxon are among the most exposed to the Middle East crisis, with more than a fifth of the free cash flow they are expected to generate in 2026 from their global oil and LNG operations based in the region. The equivalent figure for TotalEnergies is 14 per cent while Shell and Chevron are 13 per cent and 5 per cent respectively, according to Rystad. The supermajors have recently expanded in the region, signing deals in Syria, Libya and several other countries as they seek to boost their oil reserves and grow production. Total said in a trading update on Friday that a higher oil price "more than offsets the loss of Middle East production". Exxon chief executive Darren Woods on Tuesday told the FT the company was adapting to the closure of the "central source of supply for the world", but said this would hit all players in the industry. "I think our size and scale has given us some advantage with respect to sourcing . . . We are optimising our operations," he added.

Analysts said Exxon's exposure to Middle Eastern supply was a factor in why its shares had lagged behind peers since the crisis began, rising 2 per cent to $156.12. Over the same period BP and Shell's shares have jumped 11 per cent and 9 per cent respectively, reflecting investors' belief that European majors' trading arms would boost profits because of the volatility in oil and gas prices. "The share price does not just reflect the next quarter or two," said Bank of America analyst Christopher Kuplent, who noted the market expected oil prices to fall back down to $75 "within the space of months, not years". Shares in Norway's Equinor have risen more than the other western majors since the conflict began because it has no exposure to the Middle East. It is also a major gas supplier to Europe, where prices rose sharply after QatarEnergy suspended LNG deliveries last week.

Other energy companies to have had strong share price moves have been refiners such as Neste and Repsol after supplies of jet fuel and other refined products from the Middle East were cut off. Liles said: "Any players without too many eggs in the Middle East basket stand to benefit from higher prices." Paul Sankey, founder of Sankey Research, said the Middle East crisis would drive a much more aggressive push towards domestic energy sources free from the risk of supply disruption and surging prices. "This could become a demand destruction event where everyone loses," he said, noting that some of the worst-hit countries in Asia such as Taiwan could rethink their aversion to nuclear energy. "The market has been seeing the unprecedented closure of the strait as an aberration whereas oil historians are viewing this as a structural change in the risk of oil," Sankey said.

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-06" author="Simeon Kerr" newspaper="Financial time" title="In the centre of the storm: what does the Iran war mean for Dubai?"> 

On Palm Jumeirah, the deluxe artificial island that symbolises the swagger of Dubai, tourists and residents alike have been watching missiles and interceptors illuminate the night sky, a spectacle a new arrival described as "something out of Star Wars". So concerned were some guests by the threat posed by Iran's bid to escalate its war with Israel and the US that one five-star hotel transformed its ground-floor ballroom into a makeshift dormitory. The streets rapidly emptied out in a city that has become a byword for economic dynamism over the past half-century, amid wailing sirens and frequent alerts to take shelter. Dubai Airport, normally the world's busiest for international flights, cancelled thousands of flights after Iran's initial attacks, although many stranded passengers have subsequently been repatriated in recent days. "This is new to me," says a communications executive shocked by the thunderous sound of missile debris falling outside his balcony window. "Dubai always sold itself as the metropolis of peace and stability and it's really being tested now." Since the US and Israel launched the war a week ago, the United Arab Emirates, which for years has enjoyed spectacular success as a global entrepot, has been the target of about two-thirds of all ordnance fired by Iran across the Gulf.

For years, the UAE's brand — and that of Dubai in particular — was underpinned by its claim to be an island of stability in a dangerous neighbourhood. Tech billionaires, influencers and holidaymakers alike were pulled in by factors ranging from favourable tax treatment to winter sunshine and a location where east meets west, convenient for Europe, Africa and Asia alike. But now the allure of Dubai is under threat, raising the question of whether its decades of extraordinary growth are in jeopardy. "This is an unprecedented moment in our history," says a senior Dubai government official. Dubai's travails are widely shared. Across the Gulf states, the war ignited by the US and Israel's assault on Iran brought to life their worst fears: a conflict they cannot control that threatens to undermine their grand ambitions. Iranian attacks have also peppered military, infrastructure and energy targets in Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman, confirming long-held fears that Tehran would lash out at its US-allied neighbours if the regime's survival was at risk. The Iranian response threatens the ambitious plans of Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to revamp the region's largest economy into a tourism and services destination — a drive largely inspired by the UAE's successes — and his hopes of leading a region focused on development rather than conflict. But it is Dubai's business model that has come under particular strain.

The UAE's multi-layered defence system's interception of 93 per cent of more than 1,100 incoming missiles and drones has limited casualties and damage, and in recent days the streets of Dubai have become busier. While the attacks have claimed the lives of three people in the UAE, many residents see the Gulf state's response as a successful outcome to a long-dreaded scenario. Nevertheless the direct strikes on civilian infrastructure, such as the Palm's Fairmont hotel, have shattered any idea that Dubai is immune from the volatility of the Middle East. Images of the self-styled "seven-star" Burj Al Arab hotel in flames, caused by debris from a drone interception near the hotel, also reverberated around the world. Some expatriate residents are considering whether or not to stay and some have already fled. The property market has been halted in its tracks and exports have slowed to a crawl. In the event of a prolonged war in Iran, a country of 92mn people just a few dozen miles off the UAE's coastline, some fear long-term damage to Dubai's reputation — and way of doing business. "This economy is reliant on money coming in, so these events could be fatal," says one corporate lawyer. "The myth is broken."

Historically, Dubai has benefited from regional instability and global crises — but this time the port city is at the centre of the storm. Transforming itself from fishing village to regional trade hub in the 1970s, the rise of Emirates airline — linking cities across the continents through its ever-expanding airport — kick-started a tourism industry that made Dubai the world's sixth most visited city last year.

In the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks in the US, funds from Muslim-majority nations flowed to the Gulf. Dubai opened its property market to foreigners, fuelling the city's first real estate boom. The global financial crisis rattled the region in 2009, shrinking Dubai's debt-strewn economy and prompting bailout loans underpinned by Abu Dhabi. But the influx of money and people precipitated by the Arab popular uprisings of 2011 boosted its economy further. When the coronavirus pandemic struck in 2020, the government locked down harder and reopened faster than others, fostering a relaxed, safe environment that attracted a new generation of newcomers: social media influencers, cryptocurrency investors and hedge fund managers. The war on Ukraine in 2022 brought Russians seeking sanctuary, while higher UK taxes lured a wave of wealthy residents and long-term residency programmes incentivised all foreigners to put down roots. For many such newcomers, the attacks have been a wake-up call — and a lesson on the region's history and geography, even as services seek to return to normal, with Emirates promising to resume flights to all its normal destinations in coming days. The government has also set a goal of repatriating 20,000 stranded tourists. Nervousness in the expatriate community has been amplified by fear-mongering in hyperactive WhatsApp messaging groups. The UAE authorities are expected to crack down on those sharing videos regarded as compromising national security, according to one adviser.   Wealth advisers say a split had emerged between recent arrivals to Dubai, including Britons who left after chancellor Rachel Reeves abolished the non-dom tax system, and longer-term expatriates, some of whom pledge to hang on in the city.

Ashley Crossley, a partner at law firm Baker McKenzie, says newer arrivals from the UK were most concerned but were not yet considering moving back, given tax rates. Dubai imposes no income tax on individuals, investors or most companies. Instead, he predicted people would "wait and see", then consider jurisdictions such as Italy, which offers a flat tax. Many recently arrived, ultra-wealthy residents are monitoring the situation, says one who had secured a departing flight earlier this week. "We are lucky to be able to sit this outside for the next few months before assessing whether to come back," he says. "There are other options, such as Portugal or Italy." Yet for every resident flying out, many more remain. Labourers from south and south-east Asia still toil on building sites across the country; white-collar executives working from home are watching the economic impact unfurl while organising online learning for their children. And while some Dubai residents are contacting private jet services to leave the emirate — facing bills of up to $250,000 to do so — others are trying to fly back in, to maintain their tax residency status. Large property transactions have already been put on hold, lawyers say, with potential buyers of one luxury villa plot demanding discounts of 20 per cent, with further renegotiation down expected. One of them has already received four requests from other buyers to cancel reservations on off-plan purchases. An institutional investor has withdrawn a bid worth hundreds of millions of dollars on a logistics park in Jebel Ali, the free zone next to the region's busiest port that accounts for nearly a quarter of Dubai's economy and was hit by an Iranian attack this week.

Most residents reckon real estate prices could fall by a quarter to a third — a development that would be welcomed by many struggling to cover overinflated rents. Investors are allocating resources for distressed assets, with one preparing to pounce on single-family homes that see falls of 35 per cent from prewar valuations. Exports are "almost at a standstill", with shipping avoiding the Strait of Hormuz chokepoint, says one consultant. Alternative routes outside the Gulf, such as Fujairah and Oman's Salalah, have limited capacity. "Even if hostilities end, there will be a huge backlog to clear and a long-term impact on perceptions of reliability of supply," the consultant says. Officials and executives both seek to maintain their optimism about the UAE's long-term economic future. "We are the link between east and west, established markets and the global south," says the Dubai official. "Anyone serious about growth knows that this is the place to be." The UAE's leaders are wandering around malls to encourage a return to normal life. A public service announcement delivered by a child actor explains that the "big booms" in the sky are "the sound of us being safe". "The lesson to learn is that the UAE is good at crisis management — there has been no panic, just steady work to attend to stranded passengers," said Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, an Emirati political analyst. "Safety is not the absence of threats — it is the ability to absorb them, intercept them, and protect civilian life," added Zachary Cefaratti, founder of Dubai-based investment bank Dalma Capital. "In Dubai, you are seeing what security looks like when it is actually stress tested." But many worry that, after the Gulf states have been dragged into a war they did not want, the US may fail to "finish the job" or start negotiations with Iran that leave them exposed, officials and advisers say. That could leave a wounded Iranian regime determined to rebuild arsenals and reassert itself across the Gulf. As the risk of protracted conflict grows, worries are growing about the extent of the expected economic downturn. "In addition to energy, there will be a halt on all other trade in between the GCC [Gulf Cooperation Council countries] and the world," warns Qatari energy minister Saad al-Kaabi. "This will have a significant effect on the economies of the GCC and all the trading partners around the world."

Businesspeople in the Gulf expect a rerun of the Covid playbook in the UAE and beyond, including stimulus packages of expansionary spending, easier credit and reduced fees. The latest five-year growth surge has restored Dubai's coffers, thanks to abundant real estate fees and sales and corporate taxes — with the federation also underpinned by Abu Dhabi's oil-fuelled wealth. There are other policy levers that could be pulled. The UAE government in 2023 allowed gambling, an option taken up by the emirate of Ras Al Khaimah, where Wynn Resorts is developing a large casino — though Dubai has yet to approve any. "Casinos have always been an option for a rainy day," says one senior expatriate. "And now it's pouring." And with large tracts of the economy under state control, the UAE should be able to sustain a short downturn, officials and executives argue. They are banking on their regionally dominant position in aviation, trade and finance to generate a rapid recovery — when peace returns. In addition, Abu Dhabi's plan to deploy vast sovereign wealth and energy resources into AI data centres could allow it to build a dominant position in the next generation of technological development. V Shankar, chief executive of Dubai-based investment fund Gateway Partners, says the "exemplary response" to the crisis had made him more bullish on the emirate's future. "Few places can rival their infrastructure and openness to global talent and capital," he says. "This conflict will be viewed by future historians as even more of a defining moment than Covid." Additional reporting by Ahmed Al Omran in Jeddah and Josh Spero and Costas Mourselas in London This article has been amended to clarify that Dubai airport is the world's busiest for international flights

</doc>

<doc date="2026-14-06" author="Abigail Hauslohner, Lauren Fedor" newspaper="Financial time" title="Why has Trump left Iran's nuclear stockpile untouched?"> 

Two weeks into a war Donald Trump said he launched to ensure that Iran would "never have a nuclear weapon", the US has no plan to retrieve the enriched uranium stockpile Tehran would need to make an atomic bomb. "Not at all. We are not focused on that," the president told Fox News Radio on Friday. He added: "At some point, we might be." The conflicting messages have riled the president's allies and critics, who have questioned the veracity of the administration's claims about the war — from its rationale to its conduct. Trump has said "over and over and over again that a goal of the war is to permanently deny Iran the ability to have nuclear weapons", Democratic senator Chris Murphy said in Congress this week. But in "closed-door briefings, we learned that is, in fact, not a goal of the war plan; that it is not a goal of the war to destroy their nuclear programme", he added. This was not surprising, Murphy said, "because you cannot destroy Iran's nuclear programme from the air. You cannot destroy knowledge. You cannot hunt down with missiles every single Iranian scientist that knows how to build a nuclear reactor." Experts believe that the US and Israel's bombing campaign in Iran in June severely degraded the country's nuclear programme and its capacity to enrich uranium. But they also say it left Iran's stockpile of highly enriched uranium — the 440kg that it has processed close to weapons-grade — buried so far underground that it will be exceedingly difficult to remove. Iran has said it is under the rubble, but its fate remains a concern for the west. "The problem is that they have, by most people's account, some 900 pounds of enriched uranium that is still around," said John Tierney, executive director of the Center for Arms Control and Non-Proliferation. "I think that would be the thing that people would be most concerned about." An operation to reach the material buried at Isfahan and at other sites would need a sizeable number of ground troops, he said. Then there's the question: "How do you get 900 pounds [of uranium] safely out of Iran?"

Trump said this week that the war — which has sparked a wider regional conflict and turmoil in global energy markets — would end "very soon". He also said the administration has so far found no reason to deploy ground troops. The uncertain fate of Iran's stockpile reinforces a deepening impression that the US has entered a conflict with no clear aims or exit strategy. Trump and administration officials have, at turns, framed the offensive as a war for regime change, to address an imminent threat and even as a means to get ahead of an Iranian response to a unilateral Israeli attack. As oil prices have hit economically perilous levels in recent days, the administration has also sought to reassure rattled markets with claims that the military campaign would eventually make global energy supplies more secure and more affordable. But officials have long held Iran's alleged pursuit of a nuclear weapon as a key motivator. "We are engaged in a military operation to ensure, as the president has said repeatedly, that Iran can never have a nuclear weapon," vice-president JD Vance told an audience of supporters in North Carolina on Friday. Trump has repeatedly framed the war as necessary because of Tehran's refusal to "renounce" its nuclear ambitions during talks with the US, which claims Iran was rebuilding its programme. His lead negotiator Steve Witkoff warned last month that Iran was "two weeks" away from obtaining a nuclear weapon — a claim that Tierney and other experts have rubbished as ill informed. "My information is that there was pretty much an agreement by Iran to do something to degrade that enriched uranium," Tierney said. But Witkoff "didn't quite understand . . . what was on the table". Iran has always publicly insisted that its programme is for peaceful purposes. The country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed on the first day of the war, issued a fatwa against the pursuit of a nuclear weapon more than two decades ago. A former senior US intelligence official told FT that they "didn't get the sense . . . that Iran was on the cusp of some breakthrough" in its nuclear programme. Experts say a large volume of highly enriched uranium is necessary to build a nuclear weapon. So intelligence analysts have long looked at the size of Iran's stockpile to assess how close the Islamic republic was to obtaining a nuclear weapon, the former official said. Under the Obama-era nuclear deal, known as the JCPOA, Iran agreed to ship the vast majority of its enriched uranium to Russia and it submitted to strict inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency. Iran began replenishing its stockpile after Trump pulled out of the JCPOA during his first term in office. "With the increase in the stockpile, all of a sudden it made it theoretically possible that even things like US World War II [era] nuclear designs were now viable because you had enough enriched uranium," the former intelligence official explained. For that reason, "getting the stock of the enriched uranium out of the country" is a "big deal", the official said. If the US really was concerned that Iran was so close to a bomb, it would have necessitated a strategy that addresses taking control of the uranium stockpile. US legislators briefed on the war effort said they had been given no indication that securing the uranium was on the agenda. "I've gone to all the briefings," Democrat senator Ron Wyden, who sits on the Senate intelligence committee, told the FT. "And I leave scratching my head [because] it doesn't seem like people thought much about that." The IAEA reported recently that the entrance to Iran's underground nuclear facility at Natanz, heavily bombed in June, sustained more damage early in the US and Israel's new war.

The Israeli military said this week that it had hit two nuclear sites during its bombing campaign this month, including the Minzadehei compound where it alleged scientists had worked to "develop a key component for nuclear weapons" and the Taleghan compound, which it said was "utilised to develop advanced explosives and to conduct sensitive experiments" as part of a "covert nuclear weapon development programme in the 2000s". The US military has not mentioned any targets, among the 6,000 so far, that have been connected to Iran's nuclear programme or stockpile. In two factsheets released this week about "Operation Epic Fury", US Central Command said the targets have included command and control centres, communications systems, missile, drone and minelaying assets, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps and Navy. On Friday, Trump told Fox News: "Right now, we are focused on knocking the hell out of their missiles and their drones." A White House official told the FT that "the United States is effectively meeting or exceeding all of its benchmarks" in Iran and "that includes destroying Iran's dreams of ever possessing a nuclear weapon".

</doc>

<doc date="2026-02-26" author="Bita Ghaffari" newspaper="Financial time" title="Iranian stocks sell off as US 'armada' approaches"> 

Iranian stocks have sold off sharply as rising anxiety about the risk of a US attack on the country adds to a bleak economic outlook. The main index TEDPIX dropped for the third consecutive day on Monday, posting an 8.3 per cent decline in one week. The downturn reflects heightened fears of confrontation as the US has deployed military assets to the region, as well as concerns about inflation and the declining value of the national currency. Iran has been reeling from political and economic instability after widespread anti-regime protests this month, with officials saying that thousands of protesters were killed. Iranian officials put the death toll at above 3,000 and blamed "terrorists" trained and funded by Israel and the US for the bloodshed. But human rights organisations overseas suggest the number is much higher.  US President Donald Trump said last week that he had sent an "armada" of naval forces towards Iran, "just in case" he had to take action against Tehran. It was one of several conflicting messages from Trump since unrest broke out in December, from assuring protesters that "help is on the way'', to later suggesting that the Islamic republic had spared more than 800 people from execution and even raising the possibility of diplomacy with Tehran. "The tightening of sanctions, an increasingly warlike environment and the deployment of the USS Abraham Lincoln aircraft carrier to the Persian Gulf, further fuel market concerns, even if no direct action ultimately takes place," said Albert Boghzian, an economist and Tehran university professor. The UAE reiterated on Monday that it would not allow its airspace, territory or waters to be used in any strike against Iran, calling for ''dialogue, de-escalation, adherence to international law and respect for state sovereignty'' in a foreign ministry statement.

The US briefly joined Israel's 12-day war against Iran last June to bomb Iranian nuclear sites. The latest sell-off was also exacerbated by the authorities having plunged Iran into a total internet shutdown 18 days ago as they sought to disrupt the flow of information during the protests. Trading volumes on the exchange were below $50mn on Monday and have averaged just over $150mn during the past three days, versus more than $210mn last week, according to Maciej Wojtal, chief investment officer at Amtelon Capital, an Amsterdam-based manager that has a rare licence to invest in Iran's stock market from abroad. Industry activists estimate the internet disruptions have caused losses of more than $20mn per day to digital platforms and online businesses. Local media reported that business corporations were allowed roughly 30 minutes of "strictly supervised" internet access at the Chamber of Commerce in Tehran.  Tehran Stock Exchange also suffered a sharp downturn after the June war. Over the months following the conflict, the market gradually recovered as the initial panic subsided. But persistently high inflation, an inefficient subsidy system and systemic corruption have weakened Iran's economy over the years. US and international sanctions have throttled the economy by restricting oil exports, cutting the country off from global banking networks and reducing foreign investment. The year-on-year consumer inflation rate reached 60 per cent this month, the highest in more than a decade, according to the Statistical Center of Iran. Food prices have risen after the Iranian government removed the official subsidised foreign currency rate for importers of basic goods earlier this month, increasing the cost of production and imports. Analysts say without reducing tensions and restoring economic stability, investor confidence cannot return. "There is no clear government strategy for price control or inflation management, both of which are essential to creating the stability needed to encourage investment in the capital market," Boghzian said. Investors are seeking safer places to preserve their assets, with capital continuing to flow towards gold and foreign-exchange markets. "Funds that would typically be invested in equities are increasingly moving into gold funds," said Peyman Molavi, a wealth manager and financial author in Tehran. Given the stock market's limited growth prospects, "investors choose to temporarily park their capital in parallel markets". Additional reporting by Joseph Cotterill in London and Ahmed Al Omran in Jeddah

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Lim Hui Jie, Sawdah Bhaimiya" newspaper="CNBC" title="Price caps, taking the stairs, and short-sleeved shirts: How countries are coping with the Iran war energy shock">

KEY POINTS

Countries around the world have scrambled to cope with the fallout of the energy shock from the Iran war.
This comes as the Iran war stretches into its third week.
Price caps, four-day work weeks, and even getting workers to take the stairs have been some of the austerity measures imposed by governments and companies.
Countries around the world have scrambled to cope with the fallout of the energy shock from the , imposing measures from fuel export bans, loosening refining standards, and even getting workers to climb stairs instead of taking elevators. 
This comes as the Iran war stretches into its third week, and despite U.S. President Donald Trump proclaiming that the effects of the war, especially on the energy market, continue to be felt.
From the serious...
Naturally, some nationwide measures include trying to have as much fuel in country, so as to avoid having to rely on imported fuel.
On Thursday, China ordered refiners to stop refined fuel exports so as to mitigate potential domestic fuel shortages,
Sources told the agency that the ban was issued by the National Development and Reform Commission, and includes shipments of gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel. 
CNBC attempted to reach the NDRC for comment, but did not receive an immediate reply. 
Other major countries are considering or have imposed price caps for fuel products. 
On Monday, said that Tokyo was considering steps ‌to cushion the economic blow from rising fuel costs, including curbing gasoline prices. 
Takaichi was quoted by on Thursday as saying she plans to cap pump prices at an average of 170 yen ($1.07) per liter nationwide, adding that gasoline prices could potentially hit 200 yen per liter. 
Tokyo also conducted a unilateral release of crude from its own stockpiles, without waiting for coordination with other nations. 
Japan has been particularly badly hit by the war in Iran, as the world's third-largest economy needs to import almost all of its energy needs. 
South Korean President Lee Jae Myung on Friday the government implemented a petroleum price ceiling.
"We have decided to set a clear price cap on supply prices to curb domestic fuel prices, which are fluctuating wildly due to the unstable international situation," Lee said.
India also had to make some tough choices. The country told supplying liquified petroleum gas to the 330 million households that use it as a primary cooking fuel, over 3 million businesses that commercial LPG cylinders. 
... to the quirky
While some countries have tried to secure alternative energy supplies to keep their lights on, others have focused on reducing demand on their grids. 
Work-from-home orders came back in some countries after years of companies trying to coax workers back to offices after the pandemic, and Thailand reportedly getting employees to work remotely.
 ordering civil servants to take the stairs instead of elevators, reducing their reliance on air conditioning and telling government employees to wear short-sleeved shirts rather than suits.
 and Pakistan both instituted four-day work weeks for government workers, and Bangladesh has even , bringing forward its Eid-al-fitr holiday, allowing universities to close early in a bid to save fuel. 
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Kate Duguid, Harriet Clarfelt and George Steer" newspaper="Financial time" title="Retail traders rush into oil bets as Iran war drives wild price swings"> 

Retail traders are piling into bets on oil prices, drawn by a wildly volatile rally in global energy markets sparked by the Iran war. Flows from small investors into the United States Oil Fund — an exchange traded fund tracking US oil futures known by its USO ticker — reached a record $115m over the past five trading days, according to figures from VandaTrack. Activity in options linked to USO, typically another hallmark of retail involvement, surged to its highest-ever level this week, Bloomberg data shows. Options activity has also surged to four-year highs in UCO, ProShares' crude oil ETF that uses leverage to magnify investors' gains or losses, suggesting rising retail demand. The cash flooding into these products demonstrates the oil market's role as retail traders' latest playground, drawing comparisons to periodic flare-ups in so-called "meme" stocks and a rush into precious metals earlier this year. But it also highlights individual investors' appetite for risk in a market facing record price swings — and one where they were badly burned during a previous retail frenzy in 2020 when oil prices plunged into negative territory. "Long oil may be emerging as the next 'meme theme' for retail investors," said Viraj Patel, Vanda's deputy head of research, who last week flagged "early signs of a mini-retail bubble forming". Crude prices have rocketed since the US and Israel launched strikes against Iran two weeks ago, all but halting energy flows through the pivotal Strait of Hormuz as the conflict escalated. West Texas Intermediate, the US benchmark, surged to nearly $120 a barrel on Monday from $67 before war broke out. It tumbled again after President Donald Trump hinted the war would be short but remains close to $100 and highly volatile, as Iran continues to hit shipping in the strait.

With traditional exchanges closed over the weekend, traders rushed to crypto-based exchange Hyperliquid to place leveraged bets on tokenised oil futures as the US and Israel launched their initial attacks on February 28. Trading activity has intensified as the war has dragged on, with daily volume in a popular Hyperliquid oil contract rising close to $1bn on Friday from around $20mn two weeks before.  Prediction markets Polymarket and Kalshi offer dozens of distinct event contracts on where oil might trade over coming days and months. A Polymarket contract on where crude will be trading at the end of March has attracted $31mn in bets. Funds such as USO, which buys futures contracts linked to the oil price, also provide a speculative vehicle for investors who are never likely to get their hands on a barrel of crude. "I am locking in on USO right now," one TikTok user said on Thursday, in a break from their usual posts offering relationship advice. "I'm not betting the farm on it, right . . . but this is a way to hedge my portfolio to diversify the risk-return matrix." The retail dollars flowing into the $2.7bn fund — the biggest ETF in the oil market — this week surpassed a previous peak during the early stages of the pandemic, when a Covid-induced slump in demand briefly pulled WTI prices below zero. The fund ultimately collapsed by 68 per cent over 2020, handing investors heavy losses and prompting regulatory scrutiny over whether its risks were accurately disclosed.

USO, which is managed by USCF Investments, does not directly purchase crude, instead offering exposure by buying futures contracts linked to the price of US oil. The fund then needs to roll those contracts into longer dated instruments before they expire. The cost of doing so has been a drag on performance in periods of so-called contango, when long dated oil futures are more expensive than those expiring soon. But it is a benefit when the oil market is in a period of "backwardation," meaning current oil prices are higher than those several months out. That is the case today, as the supply shock sparked by the Middle East conflict pushes up spot oil prices, but traders bet the bottleneck will be resolved in the coming months. The fund has gained 71 per cent this year, compared with a 67 per cent rise in spot WTI prices. Rising activity in the fund was suggestive of "everyone [piling] in," said Todd Sohn, chief ETF strategist at Strategas. "One person says the ticker 'USO' and it's just a rush into it. And they may not even understand how the product works, because it's futures . . . It's almost a buy first and then figure out what you're doing later."

</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Azhar Sukri" newspaper="CNBC" title="Iran vows to kill Israel's Netanyahu as impact of war on Gulf region widens">
KEY POINTS
Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps promised to kill Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
The Israel Defense Forces said they had "eliminated" two senior Iranian intelligence officials.
U.S. forces struck Iran's Kharg Island on Friday, a major oil terminal.
Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi says his country is ready to cooperate with regional neighbors.
Tehran on Sunday vowed to kill Israeli Prime Minister as the U.S.-Israel war on Iran continued to threaten oil supplies in the Gulf.
"IRGC vows to pursue and kill 'child-killer' Netanyahu if he is still alive," Iran's IRNA news agency , referring to the country's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Israel in return targeted key members of Iran's leadership over the weekend.
The Israel Defense Forces said they had "" two senior Iranian intelligence officials of the "Khatam al-Anbiya" Emergency Command.
Late on Saturday, the IDF said in a post on X that it had struck the primary research center of the Iranian Space Agency and an aerial defense system production factory.
Iran continued to retaliate against targets around the region. Israeli emergency services reported a "recent missile barrage" fired at central Israel, but said there were no known injuries.
Meanwhile, oil-loading operations in the United Arab Emirates' port of Fujairah resumed on Sunday according to media reports, after being a day earlier due to a fire caused by falling debris from an intercepted drone.
A spokesperson for Abu Dhabi's state oil giant, ADNOC, which operates in Fujairah, directed CNBC to the Fujairah Media Office, which did not immediately respond to emailed requests for comment.
The ongoing war has effectively choked off energy supplies moving through the narrow Strait of Hormuz which separates Iran and the UAE.
On Friday, closed above $100 per barrel for the second straight day, and the global oil benchmark has surged more than 40% since the war in Iran began.
U.S. President said on Friday that he directed the U.S. Central Command to carry out a bombing raid, for the first time. Trump threatened further strikes on Iran's oil export hub, even as he repeatedly urged allies to deploy warships to help the U.S. secure the Strait of Hormuz.
Kharg Island has been thrust into the global spotlight because it is regarded as one of Iran's most sensitive economic targets. The terminal accounts for around 90% of the country's crude exports and has a loading capacity of roughly 7 million barrels per day.
Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi took to social media to say his country is "ready to form a committee with the countries of the region to investigate the targets that were attacked. Our attacks only target American bases and interests in the region."
In a Telegram Sunday, Araghchi said: "We have not targeted any civilian or residential areas in the countries of the region so far," and added, "Occupying Kharg Island would be a bigger mistake than attacking it."
The impact of the war is now also affecting major events in the Gulf region. Formula 1 said it has canceled the upcoming Grand Prix races in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia scheduled for April.
"While alternatives were considered, no substitutions will be made in April," Formula 1 said in a on X.
</doc>
</docx>
<docx id="file38427344" filename="Left wing articles XML - Emanuele 2.docx" parent_folder="upload">
<doc date="2026-03-10" author="Nasrin Parvaz" newspaper="The Guardian" title="Who will stand up for the Iranian people as death rains on them from the skies?">

I have been watching the news from inside Iran, unable to hold in my sorrow. As an Iranian who was imprisoned and tortured by the regime, with the world's human rights organisations and media to keep a focus on the country's plight. But now I see US-Israeli bombs falling on Iran, and some Iranians celebrating this war while innocent people die. My heart is breaking for my country.
Let us be clear: when Donald Trump and Benjamin Netanyahu conspired to launch their war, it was not out of a desire to free the Iranian people from the tyranny of the regime. : "This coalition of forces allows us to do what I have yearned to do for 40 years." He has named this operation "". Meanwhile, Iranian monarchists celebrate the carnage, waving the shah's version of the country's flag with its crowned lion and sun.
While the regime has , another man in exile is dreaming of becoming the king. Reza Pahlavi, the son of the former shah – whom Iranians struggled so hard to depose in the revolution of 1979 – now believes he is "" to lead the country. on 1 March: "My heart aches for the 3 American heroes killed and the 5 wounded by the regime. The Iranian people are forever in their debt. To their grieving families: please accept our immense love, deepest condolences, and eternal gratitude." He is more American than Iranian. If he were truly Iranian, he would express sorrow for the thousands of Iranian civilians who have died in this latest attack, including more than 150 schoolgirls who are by a US strike.
We cannot judge the people in Iran raising the monarchist flag the same as those doing so outside the country. Some diaspora monarchists were once Islamic guards, and the US-Israeli war may bring them into power. Those in Iran experienced eight years of war with Iraq and know very well that war brings horror and death. They have since died many times over by the hand of the regime. A drowning person will try to grasp on to anything, even if it still pulls them down further. This is why some are accepting of Pahlavi. In 1953, the UK and US governments executed a coup that placed Pahlavi's father, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, in power. We are now witnessing an attempt to do something similar.
Trump, Netanyahu and Pahlavi have once again asked the people to rise up. I do not think people have already forgotten the last call for an uprising. On 13 January, : "Keep protesting … help is on its way." No help came, and were estimated to have been killed. Trump has again told the people to rise up and "". But no help comes – only bombs.
Netanyahu's statement, Pahlavi's similar call and Trump's request for people to keep demonstrating in effect condemn people to death by allowing the regime to frame those who pour out on to the streets demanding bread and freedom as foreign collaborators. Since taking power, the regime has routinely executed activists by accusing them of being agents for the US or Israel. Alongside those who were killed in the recent uprisings, more than 50,000 were arrested. Among these innocent people are hundreds of children.
Making these demands – of innocent people in a country where collaborating with the US or Israel is punishable by death – is reckless and deadly. It appears to me that many powers feared the success of the people's uprising. Not only the regime, but Israel and the US too have seemed very worried that people might overthrow the Islamic Republic themselves. An uprising led by ordinary people would be uncontrollable. That is why this regime change is being carefully managed and not allowed to emerge naturally from below.
Critics who say that the goal of this war is not Iran's liberation, or that bullets don't bring food and freedom, are then attacked by monarchists. "You are with us, or with the regime," they say. This is how monarchists understand the politics of our time – as they were never politically active and they have never experienced prison or torture.
When the regime took power, my generation struggled against them. Tens of thousands of us were executed while many monarchists packed up and left the country. Monarchists have condemned Iranians who are against invasion and the murder of civilians. One of their slogans, I have heard, is: "." Imagine that – after decades of executions by the regime, monarchists are now openly calling for the same noose to silence the same people.
Now that these powers are united against the people of Iran, the rest of the world should come together and stand shoulder to shoulder against this massacre of civilians from the sky. I am hoping that the people of the west will come out against this war and demand its end.
Nasrin Parvaz is a women's rights activist and torture survivor from Iran. Her books include A Prison Memoir: One Woman's Struggle in Iran, and the novel The Secret Letters from X to A
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Guardian staff and agencies" newspaper="The Guardian" title="Trump says US may strike Iran's Kharg Island oil export hub 'just for fun'">
Donald Trump said on Saturday that the United States may carry out more strikes on Iran's vital Kharg Island oil export hub "just for fun", rejecting the prospect of a swift peace deal with Tehran.
"The terms aren't good enough yet," the US president told NBC News. The Iranian regime wants to make an agreement, he claimed.
After from the White House on how much longer it will continue to wage war on Iran, Trump alleged that US strikes had "totally demolished" most of Kharg Island, and told the network that its military may hit site "a few more times just for fun".
"We've totally decimated it," he said. "Except, as you know, I didn't do anything having to do with the energy lines, because having to rebuild that would take years."
The president also questioned, without attribution, whether Iran's new supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei "is even alive" amid speculation over his condition.
Trump also said it's not clear whether Iran has dropped mines in the strait of Hormuz, which has been all but closed since the start of the conflict two weeks ago, in the 30-minute telephone call with NBC. The strait is a vital waterway in world trade, with about a fifth of crude oil typically passing through it.
Concerns over the impact of the on global energy supplies, intensified by the strait's paralysis, have propelled oil prices to their highest levels in four years. This has swiftly driven up fuel prices right across the world, including in the US.
"We're going to be sweeping the strait very strongly, and we believe we'll be joined by other countries who are somewhat impeded, and in some cases impeded from getting the oil," Trump said. It is unclear how long this process will take. He did not state which countries would join the US in this task.
The president also renewed his call earlier on Saturday for other nations to help secure the strait of Hormuz and said the US will coordinate with them amid the US-Israeli war on Iran.
"The United States of America has beaten and completely decimated Iran, both Militarily, Economically, and in every other way, but the Countries of the World that receive Oil through the Hormuz Strait must take care of that passage, and we will help – A LOT," Trump wrote in a Truth Social post.
He added that "the US will also coordinate with those Countries so that everything goes quickly, smoothly, and well. This should have always been a team effort, and now it will be – It will bring the World together toward Harmony, Security, and Everlasting Peace!"
But he later declined to say whether the US Navy would be escorting ships. "I don't want to tell you anything about that," he told NBC.
Trump's assertion that the crisis in the strait of Hormuz should be resolved through a "team effort" could be seen as somewhat of a pivot from his earlier position that Operation Epic Fury was a US show of force, alongside Israel, that didn't require international permission.
The president also expressed surprise in the interview that US allies in the Gulf have been targeted by Iran. These countries "got shot at unnecessarily", he told NBC, describing Iran's decision to target them as "the biggest surprise I had of this whole thing".
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Eduardo Porter" newspaper="The Guardian" title="How the war in Iran and its economic fallout could lead to Trump's defeat">
The war is deeply unpopular, and the spike in oil prices will mean long-term high prices across the board for Americans
 is still high on the capture of . The easy abduction of the Venezuelan president didn't just grant Trump of the nation's oil and resources. It allowed him to throttle the government of Cuba by denying it access to energy, raising the tantalizing prospect that he might bring down a communist regime that has annoyed Washington since 1959.
Trump is confident that his joint venture with Israel in Iran will do just as well. The barrage of Iranian missiles and drones aimed at Israel and Iran's Arab neighbors has done nothing to change Trump's mind that he can win, regardless of how he defines "winning".
Whatever the war does to energy markets, the American economy can take it. "Short term oil prices, which will drop rapidly when the destruction of the Iranian nuclear threat is over, are a very small price to pay for U.S.A., and World, Safety and Peace," he noted on social media. "ONLY FOOLS WOULD THINK DIFFERENTLY!"
Trump's feeling of invincibility is also due to the fact that his erratic policymaking, so far, hasn't caused as much damage as originally feared. Despite his wall of tariffs, his dismemberment of the federal workforce, his deportation of immigrant workers and his relentless attacks on the Fed, just a few weeks ago leading economists were wondering whether the economy may achieve that most difficult of feats: a from the era of high inflation.
The United States is also perhaps the best insulated of the major advanced economies against a spike in the price of energy. Imports of crude have as domestic production surged from the early 2000s. , whose domestic to spikes in global markets, has taken a larger role in the energy supply.
Today, oil satisfies about 38% of US energy consumption, almost 10 percentage points less than during the 1973 oil crisis, when Arab oil producers stopped shipping to the US to punish it for supporting Israel in the Yom Kippur war. Natural gas's share has meanwhile grown from 30% to 36%.
European markets shuddered when Iran throttled the strait of Hormuz, through which 20% of the world's oil shipments flow, and swooned when Qatar shut down liquefied gas facilities. On this side of the Atlantic, though, Trump's favorite gauge of the , the S&P 500 index, still hovers close to its all-time high.
But however high Trump is riding, he is nonetheless . Not military defeat against whatever is left of Iran's armed forces. He is about to be defeated by the only power ever capable of stopping American military adventures: the opposition of the American public.
The war against Iran has been from the start, an unusual twist for a nation that tends to support sending the kids off to fight, even under . Its economic effects are not going to help its popularity going forward.
And self-sufficiency in energy cannot fully insulate the United States. The price of oil is set in global markets, whether it comes from Texas or the Middle East. Regular gasoline already shot up to its highest since Trump took office, . The government that retail gasoline prices will only return to their 2025 level in the fall of 2027, while the retail price of diesel will remain above its pre-war level at least until the end of next year.
Trucking companies will largely pass on higher prices to customers. Farmers facing higher fuel and fertilizer prices will also slap them onto the price tag of food. Retailers and airlines will also be hit by rising fuel costs.
All this will undoubtedly show up in on inflation, which had steadied in February to a 2.4% increase compared with a year earlier. And all this will get in the way of interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. Meanwhile, expensive gas at the pump is likely to hit sales of Americans' beloved SUVs.
All of this will hammer Trump's approval ratings where it hurts.
The president understands these risks, which is why he is pulling out the stops to bring oil prices down. The administration unveiled a plan to insure tankers and escort them through the strait. It waived sanctions against some Russian oil exports and is considering ways to expand Venezuelan oil production, to fill any supply shortfall.
But reversing the largest jump in oil prices in more than three decades will take more than that. Either the war ends or the US degrades Iran's capabilities to the point where the country can no longer threaten oil tankers moving through Hormuz.
Trump, according to his public statements, simultaneously believes that he can achieve Tehran's "unconditional surrender" and that the war "is very complete, pretty much". But his advisers in Washington should have learned by now that you can from the air and still not win the war over the long term. Neither Iran's Revolutionary Guards nor the Basij – institutions hated by most Iranians – will simply give up their weapons and risk their lives. However much Iranian infrastructure has been destroyed, there are thousands of armed warriors on the ground able to fight back and prop up a hostile regime in Tehran.
Trump could back down from demanding "unconditional surrender", invent alternative grounds to claim victory and bring his flotilla home. But that will hardly look good. Alternatively, he could deploy ground forces, an option he has not ruled out. Or he could keep on bombing, shifting to civilian targets once he is done destroying Iran's military infrastructure.
Neither of these approaches is quick, though, which means the economic pain from this war will most likely linger. And Trump may learn that, however easy it was to capture Maduro, beheading the US's rivals is not necessarily a winning strategy everywhere in the world.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Jillian Ambrose" newspaper="The Guardian" title="Beyond the strait: why Middle East oilfield shutdowns threaten to keep prices high">
Oil could pass 2008 record of $147.50 a barrel as damage and closures risk compounding supply shock caused by Iran war
he world's largest offshore oilfield stretches more than 40 miles from Saudi Arabia's eastern province into the depths of the Persian Gulf. For almost 70 years the Safaniya field has produced millions of barrels of Arabian heavy crude to be sold by the biggest oil-producing country. This week, the field was shut.
The war in Iran has effectively blocked the Gulf states from exporting a fifth of the world's oil supply to the international buyers . Iran's attacks on tankers trapped in the vital trade route have erased an estimated 15m barrels of oil from the global market.
But beyond the in the narrow waterway just a few miles south of Iran lies a quieter threat that risks compounding the and fuelling the recent surge in prices.
The risk is that the world's biggest oil producers will be forced to shut down many of their fields altogether, keeping prices higher for households and businesses for a sustained period. In a worst-case scenario, analysts have forecast oil could pass the record $147.50 a barrel reached in 2008.
Oil producers have scrambled to redirect their crude flows to pipelines and storage facilities, but as their pipes and stockpiles reach the brim, the only option remaining is to turn off the taps. The threat to the Middle East's oilfields is now considered the main driver for the upward march of market prices.
The price of Brent crude, an international benchmark, retreated from highs of $119 a barrel this week as global leaders prepared to call for an of 400m barrels of oil from its member states to temper the market. But prices have begun to inch as oilfields in Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Kuwait have shut down.
The shut-ins – temporary closures of oil and gas wells – combined with damage to some of the region's key energy infrastructure are expected to cut production by 10m barrels a day, according the International Energy Agency.
The war has also disrupted the world's gas supplies. provides about 20% of the world's seaborne gas cargoes but was forced to shut down its liquefied natural gas production because of Iranian attacks on its facilities. In response, the price of gas in Europe rose by about 80% to highs of more than €56 a megawatt hour last week.
The Qatari energy minister, Saad al-Kaabi, told the Financial Times it would take "weeks to months" to return to normal deliveries, even if the war ended today. He said the crisis of the world.
With only days remaining in the Gulf's crude storage facilities, and no end in sight to the Hormuz crisis, the world's richest oil region may need to grapple with further shutdowns, according to Ajay Parmar, a director at the energy market specialists ICIS.
"The shut-ins will most certainly prolong higher oil prices – this is the main driver for higher prices that we see right now," Parmar says. The impact is twofold: it compounds the market fears over the world's continuing supply crisis; and raises the risk that production will remain throttled, even in the event that the strait reopens.
The process of restarting a shuttered oilfield is difficult and lengthy. It can take weeks to return a field to full production, depending on the state of the infrastructure and geology. There is also a risk that a field never fully recovers.
"Restarting field production of this scale will be a massive technical exercise," says Jim Burkhard, the global head of crude oil research for S&P Global Energy. "Depending on the reservoir and how long it is [in] shut-in, it could take weeks, months or more to fully restore output."
Saudi Arabia's state-owned oil company, Aramco, has assured the market that it should be able to export 70% of its usual output to customers around the world. It plans to flow crude extracted from the Gulf more than 750 miles west across the kingdom through a pipeline to the Red Sea port of Yanbu. Saudi oil exported via this route has doubled in volume from about 1.5m barrels a day to 3m. Aramco believes this can rise to 5m within days.
Already there are at least 25 massive oil tankers en route to the Red Sea port to help ship Saudi crude to the international market, according to Aditya Saraswat, a director at Rystad Energy. Meanwhile, near the port of Fujairah, which lies to the east of the Hormuz chokepoint, tankers are ready to load crude piped around the strait from the United Arab Emirates' oilfields in the Gulf. Its pipeline crude has climbed from 1.1m barrels a day to 1.6m this week as seaborne trade dwindled, Saraswat adds.
Parmar says the pipeline reroute options can only go so far for Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The latter will have 1m barrels of crude a day that remains unsold via its pipeline, with less than 20 days of available storage. Aramco would have 2m barrels a day unable to leave Saudi Arabia without shutting down Safaniya and the Zuluf field. It has about seven days of storage available.
"Additionally, Iraq, Kuwait and Iran itself have no pipeline capacity to bypass the strait," Parmar added. Oil produced from Iraq's main southern oilfields has fallen by almost three-quarters to just 1.3m barrels a day from pre-crisis levels of 4.3m. It has less than five days of storage remaining. Kuwait pumped about 2.6m barrels a day earlier this year but has made unspecified cuts to its production. It has less than 11 days of storage.
In Saudi Arabia, there are questions over whether the ageing Safaniya field, which began production in 1957, will return to its former levels of output. But Parmar cautions against writing off the engine room of the country's oil industry. "Saudi oilfield and refining capabilities are extremely high-end and it would not surprise me if the company was indeed able to return the field back to previous capacity levels over time," he says.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Edward Helmore" newspaper="The Guardian" title="FCC chair threatens to throttle news broadcasts over 'hoaxes' about Iran war">
Brendan Carr posts that he may cancel spectrum permits of 'mainstream news' outlets for 'misleading' coverage
The 's communications licensing tsar fired a warning shot over the US broadcasting industry Saturday, threatening to cancel the spectrum permits of broadcasters pushing what he termed "hoaxes and news distortions".
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) chair Brendan Carr posted on social media that broadcasters running "fake news – have a chance now to correct course before their license renewals come up. The law is clear. Broadcasters must operate in the public interest, and they will lose their licenses if they do not."
The FCC has control over the electromagnetic spectrum, colloquially termed the airwaves, including "commercial and non-commercial fixed and mobile wireless services, broadcast television and radio, satellite and other services" under the Communications Act of 1934.
Carr's warning comes amid sustained complaints from Trump and members of the administration over its treatment by what it derisively terms "the mainstream media" and what it considers unflattering or unpatriotic coverage of the conflict in Iran.
In his post, Carr copied a Truth Social post by Trump complaining about "misleading" coverage on Iran.
"Yet again, an intentionally misleading headline by the Fake News Media about the five tanker planes that were supposedly struck down at an Airport in Saudi Arabia, and of no further use," Trump wrote Saturday on Truth Social.
Trump singled out the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, saying that they "and other Lowlife 'Papers' and Media actually want us to lose the War", calling the outlets' reporting "the exact opposite of the actual facts!"
"They are truly sick and demented people that have no idea the damage they cause the United States of America," he added.
Trump's comments came after defense secretary Pete Hegseth, who has been accused of being thin-skinned about his portrayals in the media and attempting to restrict credentialled reporters from the Pentagon, lambasted the media's coverage of the conflict.
Hegseth offered a lengthy dissection on Friday of what he termed "fake news" in relation to reporting on US-Israeli action in Iran.
"Some in this crew, in the press, just can't stop. Allow me to make a few suggestions. People look up at the TV and they see banners, they see headlines. I used to be in that business. And I know that everything is written intentionally," he said.
Hegseth singled out headlines reading "Mideast war intensifies" alongside visuals of civilian or energy targets hit by Iran.
"How about, 'Iran increasingly desperate'?" he said.
Hegseth then referenced the acquisition of CNN parent Warner Bros Discovery by Paramount Skydance, owned by multibillionaire Larry Ellison and son David Ellison. "The sooner David Ellison takes over that network, the better," Hegseth said.
In his first interview as Paramount CEO last week, Ellison pledged to support editorial independence at CNN where staff have registered anxiety at the the change in ownership and potential implications for its editorial stance.
"CNN is an incredible brand with an incredible team," Ellison said, "and we absolutely believe in the independence that needs to be maintained, obviously, for those incredible journalists, and we want to support that going forward."
In his post on Saturday, Carr said without any evidence that it was in the news industry's "own business interests since trust in legacy media has now fallen to an all time low of just 9% and are ratings disasters".
He indicated he could use access to the broadcast and communications spectrum, which is considered a public asset, to rectify the issue, setting up another potential clash between the government and the media.
"The American people have subsidized broadcasters to the tune of billions of dollars by providing free access to the nation's airwaves," Carr wrote. "It is very important to bring trust back into media, which has earned itself the label of fake news".
Carr also raised an archival gripe about media reporting of the 2024 election, which widely predicted a Democratic presidential victory when in fact the Republican candidate – Trump – won a plurality of the popular vote.
"When a political candidate is able to win a landslide election victory in the face of hoaxes and distortions, there is something very wrong," Carr said. "It means the public has lost faith and confidence in the media".
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Philip Bump" newspaper="MS NOW" title="How the money spent on Trump's Iran war could have helped Americans">
The bean-counters at the Department of Defense — admittedly in the federal government — have tallied up the cost of President Donald Trump's unilateral military incursion into Iran.
The first week of the conflict, they estimate, ran up a bill for U.S. taxpayers of , though they admit this is more of a ballpark number than a hard-and-fast calculation. It is probably safe to assume that any error in their calculations is leading them to underestimate the cost rather than to overstate it.
Much of that cost was incurred in the form of munitions. The missiles and bombs that have been pounding Iran since the first attacks on Feb. 28 each carry substantial price tags. Add in the time of the pilots and operators carrying out the strikes — and then the costs of their support teams and vehicles — and it's clear how quickly costs can add up.
To the administration, of course, all of this is very much worth it. Trump and his Cabinet have been unable to present a consistent, clear explanation for why the war against Iran needed to be undertaken or why it needs to continue. But this lack of strategic vision is shoved into the shadows by the tactical success of the strikes (save the occasional ). You may disagree with the president's presentations about the necessity of attacking, but you can't disagree that, at this point, the attacks themselves seem to be effective. Put another way: It may not be clear what we're doing in Iran, but ! 
So to Trump, that $11 billion is $11 billion well spent, a manifestation of an otherwise elusive success. Average Americans, on the other hand, would be forgiven for wondering if all of that money was worth what we're getting — which, so far, is international opprobrium and higher gas prices.
You are certainly aware that $11 billion is a lot of money. If you bought a $50,000 car every day, $11 billion would be enough to cover your habit for more than 600 years. Put another way, $11 billion would cover the estimated weekly income of every household in this entire swath of counties — a swath that includes both Phoenix and Las Vegas.
Or, to use another perspective, the one-week total for the Iran war effort would be enough to pay the cumulative weekly income of every household in these counties. They are home to nearly 20 million people.You would be forgiven for forgetting that President Trump returned to office last year pledging to dramatically slash government spending. He appointed Elon Musk to lead an initiative that ripped through government agencies, ending contracts and cutting grants that were deemed to be unnecessary — , at least. They even of how much the government had "saved" through their efforts, a database that with a user-friendly interface. 
Looking just at the 2,500 grants that yielded the biggest purported savings, for example, we can see that the administration canceled 122 grants centered on expanding epidemiology and laboratory capacity for efforts to control infectious diseases. The "savings" from those cuts? A total of $8.76 billion — less than the cost of a week of bombing Iran.
Musk's team cut a grant aimed at increasing the reliability of California's electrical grid ($630 million), a program aimed at developing therapies for Covid-19 ($717 million) and a polio and immunization program through the World Health Organization ($781 million). More than 50 grants aimed at addressing substance abuse were also slashed, with an estimated savings of $622 million.
The database lists 136 canceled grants that centered on "immunization and vaccines for children," cancellations that the administration estimates saved $1.87 billion. That's about , so who's to say which is a better investment?
That $11 billion figure was also only for the first week of the war, from Feb. 28 to March 7, or thereabouts. It seems safe to assume that the total spent in Iran has by now topped in those 2,500 largest grants. And, again, this is only grants. The administration's alleged cuts also include another $61 billion saved by ending contracts — enough to fund the war in Iran for a month or two, it seems.
There are various other ways to express that initial $11 billion, of course. It's just under the in 2022 from the 51.7 million returns of those reporting $30,000 or less in income. It's than is needed to cover the monthly benefits for every recipient of food assistance, for example. It could have paid the for 1.2 million people in 2023. It is enough to cover more than five months of .
Instead, the federal government has spent that $11 billion on the war Trump decided to launch against Iran, generating , but relatively little progress toward whatever nebulous outcome the president hopes to achieve. A grainy animation of a building blowing up may come at a steep economic cost, but can you really put a price on retweets, likes and shares?

</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Clarissas-Jan Lim" newspaper="MS NOW" title="Trump's FCC chair threatens news networks over Iran war coverage">
President Donald Trump's Federal Communications Commission chairman is threatening to revoke the licenses of news broadcasters over their coverage of the Iran war.
Brendan Carr, the head of the agency, warned broadcast news organizations on Saturday to "correct course," following the president's rants over news coverage of his war with Iran, including stories about U.S. aircraft tankers sustaining damage in a strike.
"Broadcasters that are running hoaxes and news distortions – also known as the fake news – have a chance now to correct course before their license renewals come up," Carr said in a on X, without naming any media outlets. "The law is clear. Broadcasters must operate in the public interest, and they will lose their licenses if they do not."
The FCC did not immediately respond to MS NOW's request for comment.
Carr referenced from Trump Saturday morning denying reports that five U.S. Air Force refueling planes were struck at a military base in Saudi Arabia. Trump directed his screed at the , which first reported the news, The New York Times and "other Lowlife 'Papers' and Media," claiming they "actually want us to lose the War."
In his own social media post later in the day, Carr pointed to Trump's 2024 election win as an example of the lack of trust in the media from the American people.
"When a political candidate is able to win a landslide election victory after in the face of hoaxes and distortions, there is something very wrong," the FCC chairman said.
Carr's threat was met with immediate blowback from free speech advocates and political figures.
California Gov. Gavin Newsom called the threat "." Former Rep. Adam Kinzinger, a frequent Trump critic on the right, condemned it as "."
The Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression, a First Amendment advocacy group, called Carr's statement an "," adding, "Again and again, Carr's tenure as FCC chairman has been marked by his shameless willingness to bully and threaten our free press. But even by Carr's standards, today's hypocrisy is shocking — and dangerous."
Carr, an author of Project 2025 whom Trump hand-picked to run the FCC, has sought to use his powerful position to bend media outlets — and— to the Trump administration's will. Under his watch, the FCC has and threatened to strip the licenses of broadcasting companies deemed to have covered the administration and the president unfavorably.
But his latest missive took the administration's assault on what the president routinely calls the "fake news" a step further. Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, in an X post, "This is a clear directive to provide positive war coverage or else licenses may not be renewed. This is worse than the comedian stuff, and by a lot. The stakes here are much higher. He's not talking about late night shows, he's talking about how a war is covered."
Trump and members of his administration have repeatedly bemoaned the media coverage of the war. Earlier this month, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth accused the press of being than the military's successes.
"But when a few drones get through or tragic things happen, it's front-page news," Hegseth said. "I get it; the press only wants to make the president look bad. But try for once to report the reality."
He again for reporting on the economic fallout of the war.
"Some in this crew, in the press, just can't stop," he said.
Late on Friday night, Trump railed against coverage of the war, saying: "The Fake News Media hates to report how well the United States Military has done against Iran."
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Hayes Brown" newspaper="MS NOW" title="The dangerous significance of Pete Hegseth's 'no quarter' Iran war pledge">
It's no secret that doesn't care much for the laws of war. In the opening days of the war against Iran, he the ongoing assault involved "no stupid rules of engagement, no nation-building quagmire, no democracy building exercise, no politically correct wars." Standing before the press Friday morning, Hegseth again promised "no quarter, no mercy for our enemies." 
As isolated rhetoric it would be troubling to hear the civilian atop the military chain of command, just below the commander-in-chief, talk so disparagingly about the concept of restraint in times of war. But Hegseth seems determined to put his belief that into practice. In doing so, he is encouraging a return to the brutalities of total war that left millions of civilians dead in past wars — and threatens to place a new target on American servicemembers.
Long before President Donald Trump placed him in charge of the Pentagon, then-Fox News host Hegseth for military service members accused or convicted of alleged war crimes. In , he railed against "the folly of international law, and the crazy maze of rules of engagement" that govern how countries fight wars without a return to the wide-scale atrocities of World War II. And , since becoming defense secretary, Hegseth has overseen the dismantling of a plan to reduce civilian deaths during conflicts in favor of, as he put it when rebranding his domain the "Department of War," on "maximum lethality, not tepid legality."
As , Friday's comments from Hegseth calling for "no quarter" stand out for even more implicitly greenlighting the military to violate the broader laws of war as well as the military's own longstanding rules of engagement:
Orders or threats of "no quarter" — a term used for killing enemies who surrender or are rendered unable to fight — have been considered since the Hague Convention of 1899, with "directions to give no quarter" listed as a war crime following World War II. […]
And it's not just global rules that are being flouted. Not only does the term no quarter violate the Geneva Convention, it defies : "Do not engage anyone who has surrendered or is out of battle due to sickness or wounds."
That last bit was around the military's campaign against in the Caribbean and eastern Pacific. reported that during the first of these strikes against suspected drug traffickers, he gave the order to "kill everybody" onboard. When the smoke cleared, two survivors clinging to the wreckage were then fired upon in a second strike to comply with Hegseth's orders. The ongoing attacks on those boats are one-sided, not an "armed conflict" as is the case in Iran, and raising the chances of future prosecutions.
Congressional Republicans swiftly but Democrats remained dissatisfied. The New York Times also reported in January that the U.S. used a plane that looked like a civilian aircraft in its first strike. If true, it was likely a war crime called "perfidy," given that "the laws of armed conflict prohibit combatants from feigning civilian status to fool adversaries into dropping their guard, then attacking and killing them."
The political pressure on Hegseth to and any potential crimes hasn't deterred him in the slightest from encouraging the war against Iran be carried out with minimum discretion. Each of his press conferences since the first strikes on Iran — mostly attended by rather than serious journalists — have included more boastful bravado at the carnage being unleashed on Iran. "Our war fighters have maximum authorities granted personally by the president and yours truly," Hegseth . "Our rules of engagement are bold, precise, and designed to unleash American power, not shackle it."
After Hegseth's earlier comments disparaging the rules of engagement, issued a statement calling on American officials to "reaffirm US compliance with the laws of war and restore the personnel and oversight structures that help protect civilians during armed conflict."That seems unlikely given a new effort from Hegseth to undertake a of the military's judge advocate general corps and their fellow civilian lawyers at the Pentagon. As , the concern with this review is that it provides cover for an attempt to "reduce the ranks of lawyers, purge internal dissent, and eliminate guardrails designed to restrict the military from carrying out legally dubious orders." And while operations like the returning from a multinational training exercise are technically allowed under the laws of war, it's hard to say they were fully legal under American law, given for the war effort.
Despite what Hegseth may think, words matter in times of war. Beyond conveying the message of what is gained through fighting, it is only through clear communication that the orders from the top can be carried out by the servicemembers who've sworn an oath to obey them. His refusal to acknowledge that there are times where things other than body count should factor into combat decisions threatens the cohesion and professionalism of the military.
Likewise, it's the global commitment to the established laws of war that keeps American civilians safe and untargeted. In rejecting them with his statements, he is incentivizing those who serve under his command to not only discard their humanity but destroy a shield protecting their fellow Americans from having the same standard of "maximum lethality" carried out against them.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Ayman Mohyeldin and David Rohde" newspaper="MS NOW" title="Iran is receiving 'military cooperation' from Russia and China, foreign minister says">
Iran is receiving "military cooperation" from Russia and China, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in an on Saturday. He also accused the United Arab Emirates of allowing the U.S. to launch attacks on Iran from its territory 
Araghchi said Iran has no intention of fully opening the Strait of Hormuz, a tactic that has sent global oil prices soaring. And he downplayed the impact of a recent U.S attack on military installations on Kharg Island, through which 90% of Iran's oil exports flow.
He vowed that Iran will attack oil facilities across the Persian Gulf if the U.S. targets Iran's oil infrastructure.
"I think our armed forces have already answered that they would retaliate if our oil and energy infrastructure are attacked," Araghchi said. "And they will attack any energy infrastructure in the region, which belongs to an American company or an American company is a shareholder. So the reaction would be clear."
Araghchi called Russia and China Iran's "strategic partners" and said his country was receiving "military cooperation" from the two U.S. adversaries but declined to elaborate.
"That includes military cooperation," he said. "I'm not going into the into any details of that, a good cooperation with these countries, politically, economically, even militarily."
He also defended Iran's attacks on its neighbors across the Persian Gulf, which the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia have said included Iranian strikes on civilian areas. Araghchi accused the United Arab Emirates of allowing the U.S. to launch attacks on Iran from Dubai, Ras Al-Khaimah and other densely populated areas. 
"It is clear that they are fired from U.A.E.," he said, adding it was "dangerous" to "use highly populated areas to launch, you know, rockets against us."
The U.A.E. responded late Saturday afternoon, saying Araghchi is perpetuating a "confused policy."
"The UAE has the right to self-defense in the face of this terrorist aggression imposed upon it, yet it continues to prioritize reason and logic," read an official posted on X, "the country maintaining restraint and seeking an exit for Iran and the region."
Officials from other Persian Gulf countries have denied that they allow U.S. forces to launch attacks from civilian areas.
Araghchi denied claims from Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth that Iran's new supreme leader, Mojtaba Khamenei, had been wounded and "disfigured" in the Israeli and U.S. strikes that killed his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and his wife and son.
"There is no problem with the new supreme leader. The system is working," he said, adding, "Everything is under control."
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Emily Hung and Clarissa-Jan Lim" newspaper="MS NOW" title="Trump fundraising pitch features U.S. soldiers killed in Iran war">
President Donald Trump's political action committee this week sent a fundraising email promising donors "private national security briefings" by the president himself and featuring a photo from the dignified transfer for U.S. service members killed in Kuwait.
"For the first time ever, I'm opening up spots on the National Security Briefing Membership," reads the email, from Trump's Never Surrender Inc. PAC.
"As a National Security Briefing Member, you'll receive my private national security briefings, unfiltered updates on the threats facing America. The straight truth on border invasions, foreign adversaries, deep state sabotage, and every danger the fake news hides," it continues. "You'll get the inside scoop DIRECT from me, President Trump, the leader who's rebuilt the greatest military in history, and put America First like no one else."
The email includes a black-and-white version of an taken by the White House showing the president in a white "USA" baseball cap saluting a transfer case during the dignified transfer at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware on March 7.
The White House and the Pentagon did not respond to MS NOW's request for comment on the fundraising email pegged to the Iran war and what the offers of "national security briefings" would entail.

Trump is not the first political figure to make offers of special access to big donors, Daniel Weiner, director of the elections and government program at the Brennan Center for Justice, noted in an interview with MS NOW. 
"In this instance, obviously it would be a blatant violation of the law to disclose any sort of classified information or secret information to donors. But assuming that they're not actually doing that, it's hard to see that there's anything illegal about any of this," Weiner said.
But the use of a photo from the dignified transfer of U.S. troops who died in the line of duty to raise funds is notable.
"To have that imagery used for partisan advertising and fundraising, that's a bridge, you know, a new bridge that we're crossing," Weiner said. "But it's more of a question of norms."
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Kristen Welker and Alexandra Marquez" newspaper="NBC News" title="Trump says Iran is ready to negotiate ceasefire but he's not ready to make a deal">
President Donald Trump said Saturday that he's not ready to make a deal to end the war with Iran despite the country's willingness to do so "because the terms aren't good enough yet," but declined to say what those terms would be.In a wide-ranging, nearly 30-minute telephone interview with NBC News, the president also said he is working with other countries on a plan to secure the Strait of Hormuz amid surges in global oil prices, and he dismissed Americans' concerns about rising gas prices since the U.S. and Israel launched their joint military operation two weeks ago.
The president also questioned whether Iran's new supreme leader is "even alive."
Trump said he was "surprised" that Iran decided to attack other Middle Eastern countries in response to the U.S.-Israeli operation, and that U.S. strikes on Kharg Island on Saturday "totally demolished" most of the island but that "we may hit it a few more times just for fun."
He also slammed Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, saying he was "far more difficult to make a deal with" than Russian President Vladimir Putin over efforts to end the war in Ukraine. Trump's comments follow criticism from global leaders after the U.S. in an effort to mitigate surging global oil prices.
Trump says he's not ready to make a deal with Iran
On the phone call, Trump said he was unwilling to make a deal to end the war with Iran at this stage.
"Iran wants to make a deal, and I don't want to make it because the terms aren't good enough yet," he said, adding that any terms will have to be "very solid."
When asked what the terms of a potential deal to end the war would be, the president responded: "I don't want to say that to you." But he agreed that a commitment from Iran to completely abandon any nuclear ambitions would be part of it.
Trump's comments come after Reuters that the Trump administration had brushed aside efforts to advance talks to end the war.
He also previewed what the rest of the U.S. military operation in Iran could look like. It began last month with Israeli and U.S. forces launching joint strikes on the nation and Iran responding by launching strikes on Israel and U.S. targets in nearby countries. Thirteen active U.S. service personnel have died since the conflict began, including six U.S. crew members who died Friday in Iraq.
Trump administration officials in the last two weeks about what the U.S. military goals are in Iran and how long the conflict could last, with Trump at times saying it and "we are way ahead of the timetable" and there's "practically nothing left to target."
On Saturday, the president said that "the only power they have, and it's a power that can be closed off relatively quickly, is the power of dropping a mine or shooting a relatively short-range missile. But when we get finished with the shoreline, they're not going to have that power either."
He added later: "We've knocked out most of their missiles. We've knocked out most of their drones. We knocked out their manufacturing of missiles and drones, largely. Within two days, it'll be totally decimated."
Securing the Strait of Hormuz
Trump on Saturday said he is asking "numerous countries that are affected by the thuggery of Iran" to help secure the Strait of Hormuz — a key marine passageway for oil tankers — as global oil prices amid the war.
Iran's leaders, meanwhile, and have called for even higher oil prices since the conflict began.
The president said several countries have committed to helping secure the strait, but declined to name any of them.
"They've not only committed, but they think it's a great idea," he said.
In a on Saturday morning, Trump wrote: "Many Countries, especially those who are affected by Iran's attempted closure of the Hormuz Strait, will be sending War Ships, in conjunction with the United States of America, to keep the Strait open and safe," adding: "Hopefully China, France, Japan, South Korea, the UK, and others, that are affected by this artificial constraint, will send Ships to the area."
On the phone call, Trump said it's not clear whether Iran has dropped mines into the strait.
"We're going to be sweeping the strait very strongly, and we believe we'll be joined by other countries who are somewhat impeded, and in some cases impeded from getting the oil," he added.
The president demurred when asked whether the U.S. Navy would start escorting ships through the strait, saying, "I don't want to tell you anything about that," but adding that "it's possible."
The president also confirmed that U.S. forces , a strategic island off the coast of Iran that is home to an oil terminal responsible for the majority of the nation's oil exports.
U.S. Central Command said Saturday morning it had conducted "precision strikes" on 90 military targets while "preserving the oil infrastructure," but Trump said later Saturday that "we totally demolished Kharg Island, but we may hit it a few more times just for fun."
"We've totally decimated it," the president added. "Except, as you know, I didn't do anything having to do with the energy lines, because having to rebuild that would take years."
Trump questions whether Iran's new supreme leader is 'even alive'
The president on Saturday questioned whether Iran's , Mojtaba Khamenei, is alive after Khamenei did not appear on camera to issue his first statement as Iran's leader on Thursday.
In , Khamenei, the son of slain predecessor Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, vowed to keep blocking the Strait of Hormuz and attacking U.S. allies in the region.
"I don't know if he's even alive. So far, nobody's been able to show him," Trump said on the phone Saturday.
"I'm hearing he's not alive, and if he is, he should do something very smart for his country, and that's surrender," Trump added, but called the news of his death "a rumor."
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth on Friday said that the younger Khamenei was "" and called his written statement a "weak one."
"Iran has plenty of cameras and plenty of voice recorders. Why a written statement? I think you know why. His father: dead; he's scared, he's injured, he's on the run, and he lacks legitimacy," Hegseth added.
Khamenei was named the new supreme leader earlier this week after the initial U.S. and Israeli strikes on Iran a week earlier.
Trump declined to say whether there was one particular Iranian leader whom he would like to see take over as supreme leader, saying instead, "We have people that are living that would be great leaders for the future of the country."
Asked whether he's in touch with any of the potential leaders, the president said: "I don't want to say that. I don't want to put them in jeopardy."
Trump 'surprised' that Iran targeted other Middle Eastern countries
The president said Saturday that U.S. allies in the Middle East, including the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia, "have been terrific" and "they got shot at unnecessarily."
"I was very surprised," Trump said about Iran targeting other Middle Eastern countries, adding it was "the biggest surprise I had of this whole thing."
According to , Iran has been firing drones into Middle Eastern countries including those Trump mentioned, plus Bahrain and Kuwait, and targeting oil infrastructure, logistics hubs and government centers.
The U.S. does not release data on the number of drones it faces or intercepts, but data from the UAE says that 1,475 unmanned aerial vehicles had been fired at the country as of March 10.
On Saturday morning, Iraqi officials said an Iranian strike inside a U.S. Embassy compound in Baghdad. Also on Saturday, in the wake of the U.S. strikes on Kharg Island, Iran throughout the region if the U.S. struck oil infrastructure on the island.
Trump 'not concerned' about rising gas prices
Trump, who in 2024 then-President Joe Biden over high gas prices, dismissed concerns on Saturday about whether rising gas prices in the U.S. could hurt Republicans in the upcoming midterm elections.
"I think they'll go lower than they were before, and I had them at record lows," Trump said about gas prices, promising that they would drop soon after the war in Iran ends.
On March 1, the day after the U.S. and Israel began attacking Iran, gas was averaging $2.94 a gallon in the U.S., . On Saturday, the average price was $3.66.
"There's so much oil, gas — there's so much out there, but you know, it's being clogged up a little bit. It'll be unclogged very soon," the president added.
Asked directly about whether gas prices could affect the midterms, Trump said, "I'm not concerned at all.
"The only thing I want to do is make sure that Iran can never be the bully of the Middle East again," he added.
Trump says Russia is 'perhaps' sharing information with Iran
Asked about his decision on Russian oil amid surging global oil prices, the president said: "I want to have oil for the world. I want to have oil,"
He added that the sanctions, which were imposed when Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, will "go back as soon as the crisis is over."
On Saturday, when asked about criticism about lifting the sanctions, Trump didn't directly answer but trained his ire on the Ukrainian president, saying over the phone, "I'm surprised that Zelenskyy doesn't want to make a deal. Tell Zelenskyy to make a deal because Putin's willing to make a deal."
"Zelenskyy is far more difficult to make a deal with," the U.S. president added.
Zelenskyy earlier this month in the Middle East with intercepting Iranian drones, using the Ukrainian military's experience with shooting down Russian drones.
But on Saturday, Trump said that "we don't need help," adding that the "last person we need help from is Zelenskyy."
The president declined to comment on whether the U.S. has accepted Ukraine's help with drone interception technology.
In a on Friday, Zelenskyy wrote: "Countries in the Middle East have reached out to us, asking to share our expertise in intercepting Iranian 'shahed' drones during massive strikes. That is why we have already sent expert teams to three countries."
Earlier Saturday, an Iranian politician said Ukraine was a for Iran because Ukraine offered help defending against Iranian drones.
Asked to respond to reports that Russia is, Trump said, "Russia is perhaps giving information, perhaps they're not."
He added that the U.S. is "doing that against them," because "we're giving a little information to Ukraine and we're trying to make peace between the two nations."
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Jane Lytvynenko and Frank Matt" newspaper="NBC News" title="Videos and satellite images show Iran's drone army puncturing U.S. and allied defenses">

The buzz came before the explosion. An aerial vehicle dove from the cloudless sky toward its target at Camp Buehring, a U.S. military base in Kuwait. It struck near a running track with a fiery plume of black smoke.
"Oh s---t," a man recording from the base said. "Oh my God. Oh, that was right here. They're f---ing getting… They're starting to dial into our building."
The video ends as the smoke billows in the desert outpost.
The footage of this attack, posted online on March 1 but possibly filmed earlier, is one of over 30 open-source videos and satellite images verified by NBC News showing Iranian drone strikes and interceptions by the U.S. and its allies across seven countries. Apparent targets include military bases, transportation hubs, energy infrastructure and diplomatic centers. In 21 of 26 videos, drones appear to reach their targets.
The videos, posted on various online platforms, reveal a pattern of inadequate protection for strategic locations targeted by the drones from the outset of the war. As the U.S. and Israel bombard Iran with the stated goal of crippling its nuclear, ballistic and drone capabilities, Iran retaliates by utilizing its arsenal of missiles and cheap exploding drones.
The drones are a novel challenge for the U.S., its allies and the countries caught in the crossfire. Adversaries will be watching America's response closely.
The weapon's versatility may allow Iran to prolong the war by straining enemy resources, a tactic attractive for cash-strapped states, experts say. Iran is a pioneer of the technology, which it following its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. It has challenged the economics of warfare. While the U.S. remains firm in its air dominance, Iran's drone campaign to use expensive munitions for interceptions.
"It's kind of like the ultimate symbol of asymmetric warfare," said Joe Dyke, director of programmes for Airwars, a nonprofit that tracks civilian harm in conflict zones.
While the drones can be shot down with a range of weapons including heavy machine guns, fighter jets and advanced interceptors, they can overwhelm air defenses and even one such aircraft can inflict deadly damage.
A drone strike at the civilian Port of Shuaiba in Kuwait. Video verified by NBC News shows that others have bombarded oil infrastructure and logistics hubs. Some drones have struck U.S. consulates and embassies across the Gulf states as passersby gasped and filmed the nosedives. An oil storage facility in Oman was hit twice: Once last week and again this week, underscoring the ongoing vulnerability of crucial targets.
The U.S. does not release data on the munitions it intercepts or faces. Data from the United Arab Emirates, which has been heavily impacted by Iranian strikes, says that 1,475 unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) were fired at the country as of March 10 and 1,385 were intercepted.
The UAE, one of the hardest hit Gulf countries, has reported six killed and 122 wounded resulting from the conflict as of March 11. Israel has reported 13 dead. In Iran, more than 1,200 people have been killed by U.S.-Israeli strikes, according to the Iranian Red Crescent Society.
The drone most frequently deployed by Iran is the Shahed-136, according to the weapons tracking project (OSMP). With a wingspan of 11.5 feet, it is capable of flying some 1,200 miles and carrying up to 110-pound warheads guided by a satellite navigation system, OSMP says. The drones are pre-programmed to fly to a specific target and operate with no pilot.
In the opening days of the war, Gen. Dan Caine, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said, "The threat from one-way attack UAVs has remained persistent."
Since then, the U.S. has published video of drone interceptions and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth claimed in a briefing Friday that the number of drone attacks has dropped.
"CENTCOM continues to attack ballistic missile and drone capabilities so that they are no longer a threat to us, our forces, our bases or our partners," said Caine in the same briefing.
The U.S. is one of over 10 countries formally requesting help from Ukraine, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who said in a post on social media that Ukraine has dispatched three teams to the Middle East.
The Trump administration's official ask came six days after the beginning of the U.S.-Israeli war on Iran, according to a post from Zelenskyy on social media at the time, despite Ukraine offering it months earlier. Ukraine has nearly four years of experience dealing with the weapon, earned at the expense of infrastructure destroyed and civilian lives lost as it pleaded for air defense.
"Ukraine can contribute to stabilization," said Zelenskyy on Friday at a news conference in France.
Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi has apologized for some of the attacks. In an interview with Al Jazeera, he implied that some of the strikes were not coming directly from the country's top command.
"Our military units are now, in fact, independent and somewhat isolated, and they are acting based on general instructions given to them in advance," he said.
In other interviews, Araghchi said Iran has been preparing for this war and a possible ground invasion by U.S. troops.
The first Shahed sighting was in 2019, according to OSMP. It gained popularity when Russia bought the technology from Iran in November 2022 and has since improved on the Shahed-136 model.
An NBC News analysis of online video of Shahed-type attacks shows that the majority of them have hit along the Persian Gulf coastline. Depending on detection radar placement in the Gulf, the drones may be more difficult to locate as they approach the coastline, said Kelly Grieco, a senior fellow at the Stimson Center, a Washington think tank. It could also hint at Iran's larger plan.
"This second week now, the target set is very similar, and they're re-attacking things," said Grieco. "There's real coherence to their strategy."
In one video, a drone follows its pre-programmed path to an oil storage tank in Oman, the second such attack on the facility.
A Dubai beachgoer filmed another video showing a buzzing drone flying inland as a warplane boomed after it, releasing an interception missile moments later.
The drones have reached Azerbaijan, verified videos show, bombarding the airport in Nakhchivan. Azerbaijan is not a party to the conflict and demanded an apology from Iran, which has denied responsibility.
The attacks by primitive drones and more sophisticated ballistic missiles have crippled both air and sea traffic in the crucial oil-rich region. The strategically critical Strait of Hormuz is . Air travel in the Persian Gulf region has been heavily affected, according to data from Flight Radar 24, a global tracking service. Kuwait and Bahrain airports are completely closed to commercial flights while other regions face heavy restrictions.
The size of Iran's drone arsenal and production capabilities is unclear. Interception numbers released by the UAE suggest attacks have dwindled, but that could be an indication of regrouping and stockpiling before the next attack rather than a diminishing supply, said Grieco of the Stimson Center. Russia, the only other country using these types of weapons regularly, frequently breaks between major bombardments to amass more drones to release in one attack.The benefit of Shahed-type drones is the ease of assembly and relatively inexpensive price tag. Ukrainian authorities have found that the drones are constructed with dual-use components that can evade sanctions. While the cost of one drone is between $20,000 and $50,000, taking them down with U.S.-made defense systems can cost over 10 times that or more.
With that calculus, the cheap Shahed drone could help Iranians prolong the war and the vast economic damage to the region.
"There's an assumption that seems to be at work, that the United States can decide when the war ends," said Grieco.
"I don't know if the United States is in that position as much as it thinks it is," she said. "The Iranians may not agree with that. Are the Iranians going to decide at that point that they're going to cease operations, too?"
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Hannah Parker" newspaper="NBC News" title="Iran war threatens to erase the economic bump from bigger tax refunds">
Already, U.S. households have received an average federal tax refund of $3,742, according to as of Feb. 27. That's about 10.6% higher than the average refund was a year ago.
This is a big deal: For tens of millions of Americans, the day their tax refund arrives is the biggest single-day cash flow they see all year.
This influx of cash on a mass scale has ripple effects across the whole economy, as Americans use the money for things like paying down debt, buying big-ticket items and topping up savings accounts.
But this year, experts say the economic impact of the U.S.-Israeli war in Iran could derail any potential boost to the economy that would typically come from consumers spending their tax refunds.
Since the onset of the Iran war, the has skyrocketed, causing gas and diesel prices to jump too. On Friday, the average cost of a gallon of unleaded gas in the U.S. was $3.64, according to GasBuddy's . That is about $0.72 higher than last month's average price.
"When a war pushes oil up, it is not just a gasoline story," said Paul Dietrich, chief investment strategist at Wedbush Securities. "Gas prices have already jumped sharply, and diesel costs are rising too. That means higher costs for commuting, groceries, shipping and basic household living."
"If families have to spend more filling the tank and buying food, they spend less on restaurants, travel, clothing, home goods and everything else," he said.
The rise in gas prices is just one of several impacts the war in Iran could have on Americans' household budgets.
Consumers have been under growing economic pressure over the past several years from post-Covid inflation, tariffs, and a labor market that started last year.
"There are still inflation embers in the U.S. economy, and an increase in energy has the potential to raise inflation expectations," said Brent Schutte, chief investment officer at Northwestern Mutual Wealth Management Co.
This, in turn, "may cause [interest] rates to have to go higher to tamp down inflation," he said.
Already, the war and its economic effects have driven up the cost of home mortgages, whose rates are tied to U.S. Treasurys. On Friday, the interest rate for an average 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 6.41%, — up from just 5.9% right before the U.S. attacked Iran.
This comes after February inflation data released this week showed it had remained over the previous month.
But now, with the war in Iran, all bets are off when it comes to inflation.
Any potential economic upside from higher tax refunds is "definitely being muted a bit by what's going on in the Middle East," said Max Kahn, president of retail and technology research firm Coresight Research.
If not for the war, he said, taxpayers "might've used it for more discretionary items. But probably a higher chunk than expected is going to have to go to gas."
The good news, however, is that tax refunds could "mute the impact of increased gas prices," said Kahn. They could also potentially insulate consumers against "psychological worry."
Still, "it's not going to create the bump that it might've otherwise created," he said.
The impact of soaring gas prices on individual families' budgets is relative, however, with the highest burdens placed on those least able to absorb the shock.
"Gas prices typically impact lower income more than upper income, because it's a higher percentage of their discretionary spending or their overall spending capabilities," said Kahn.
When it comes to gas, consumers also typically have fewer ways to stretch their dollars than they do with other types of goods. Household items and groceries, for example, can be purchased in bulk or from discount chains.
"When energy costs rise, consumers do not stop spending," said Dietrich, of Wedbush. "They just stop spending on what they want and spend more on what they have to buy."
For an economy as reliant on consumer spending as America's, these broader risks eventually reach across income levels, he said.
"Lower-income households get squeezed by fuel costs, while higher-income households can also get hit if the stock markets hit their asset values and stock market gains," said Dietrich.
"The Iran war acts like a tax increase on the consumer, except nobody voted for it," he said.

</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Millie Cooke" newspaper="Indipendent" title="Ministers may scrap fuel duty hike if Middle East war drags on, Ed Miliband suggests">

The government is looking at scrapping a in response to the rising energy prices caused by the war in the energy secretary has suggested.
 said ministers will intervene if necessary, insisting the government is "going to stand by people in this crisis" amid growing pressure to protect consumers amid spiralling costs.
Fuel duty is currently frozen to help drivers with the cost of living, but that is due to end in the autumn. has so far resisted calls to cancel the planned hike in response to the oil price spike caused by Donald Trump's war on Iran.
Asked whether plans to end the 16-year fuel duty freeze in September would be reversed because of spiking oil prices, he said: "Let me answer that by saying this, which is, I'll be candid with you, we don't know how long this conflict is going to go on and therefore, with five months to go until September, we will have to see where we are, obviously."He then spoke of the chancellor's actions to reduce energy bills, before adding: "We will stand by the British people in this in this crisis, and we'll do what it takes to do that."Pressed again whether this meant keeping the fuel duty freeze in place, Mr Miliband said: "You're asking me to sort of speculate on what the chancellor is going to do on fuel duty… but look, I am sending a clear message, which is we are going to stand by people in this crisis."
Speaking to the BBC, he added: "Obviously we are preparing for every eventuality... If it's necessary to intervene we will."
It comes as fears over a cost of living crisis similar to what happened in 2022 as a result of have been heightened by the price of oil rising more than 20 per cent to above $100 a barrel and gas more than 50 per cent.
The RAC's head of policy said last week that diesel prices have already risen by nearly 9 per cent since 28 February. Meanwhile, petrol prices are on average 6 per cent more across the same period, RAC Fuel Watch said.
Chancellor Rachel Reeves has previously insisted that the rise would go ahead in September. But ministers have since softened their stance, with prime minister Sir Keir Starmer last week that the planned 5p increase would be "kept under review" before it is due to come into force in September.
Ms Reeves has also indicated that targeted support could be offered to households struggling with soaring energy bills as a result of the Middle East crisis.
The chancellor said she would give support "to those who really need it", with a package of help for people who rely on heating oil – which is not covered by the energy price cap – expected next week.
Gas and electricity bills are covered by regulator Ofgem's price cap which is fixed until June, but if the conflict continues and Iran maintains its stranglehold on shipping in the Strait of Hormuz, then, households could face dramatic hikes at that point.
But about 1.5 million households relying on heating oil already face soaring costs, with the price per litre doubling since the start of the crisis.
It comes after Ms Reeves and Mr Miliband met with petrol industry representatives to warn against profiteering during the Iran war, with the latter saying that the government would not tolerate "unfair practices".
"It is our obligation as the government to ensure the consumers are treated fairly in this crisis", he said.
Ahead of the talks, the chancellor wrote to the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), asking it to stay on "high alert" for "unjustifiable" price hikes, and insisted she would "not tolerate" firms exploiting uncertainty in the Middle East for financial gain, as concerns grow over the impact of the war on the cost of living.
But the Petrol Retailers Association (PRA), which represents large and small independentacross the UK, hit out at ministers' suggestions that there had been "rip-off" pricing and "profiteering" by fuel providers, accusing them of "incorrect and inflammatory language".
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Nicole Winfield" newspaper="Indipendent" title="Pope Leo demands Middle East ceasefire after deadly Iran school attack">
 issued his most forceful demand to date for a in the on Sunday, directly appealing to the leaders responsible for the conflict in .
"On behalf of the of the and all women and men of good will, I appeal to those responsible for this conflict," Leo stated.
"Cease fire so that avenues for dialogue may be reopened. can never lead to the justice, stability, and peace that the people are waiting for."
Speaking after his Sunday noon blessing, Leo refrained from explicitly naming the or .
However, the first US Pope made a clear reference to attacks targeting a school, seemingly alluding to the missile strike on an elementary school in during the war's initial days, which claimed the lives of over 165 people, many of them children.
US officials have since indicated that outdated intelligence likely led to the strike, with an investigation into the incident currently underway.
The has prominently highlighted the devastation of the Minab strike, featuring an aerial photograph of the mass grave being prepared for the young victims on the front page of its official newspaper, L'Osservatore Romano, on 6 March, under the stark headline "The Face of War."
Leo expressed his solidarity with the families of those killed in attacks that have "hit schools, and residential centres." He voiced particular concern regarding the war's impact in , where aid organisations are warning of an escalating humanitarian crisis.
The plight of communities in southern is of specific concern to the , given their historical role as a bulwark for across the predominantly region.
For the two weeks following the commencement of the US-Israeli conflict, the Pope had limited his public statements to more muted calls for diplomacy and dialogue.
This approach was seemingly an effort to avoid positioning himself as a political counterweight to in America. His decision not to publicly name the US or also aligns with the Vatican's long-standing tradition of diplomatic neutrality.
On Friday, for instance, in an address to priests attending a Vatican class on the sacrament of confession, Leo suggested the sacrament served as a workshop for restoring unity and peace.
He posed a poignant question: " might well ask: do those Christians who bear grave responsibility in armed conflicts have the humility and courage to make a serious examination of conscience and to go to confession?"
Yet, while Pope Leo has sought to maintain an indirect and apolitical message to prevent inflaming tensions, some of his US cardinals and the Vatican secretary of state have adopted a more outspoken stance.
Cardinal Robert McElroy, the archbishop of , declared the war morally unjustifiable.
 Cardinal Blase Cupich described as "sickening" the 's use of video game imagery in its social media communications about the conflict.
Cardinal Pietro Parolin, the Vatican secretary of state, rejected 's assertion of a "preventive war."
Nevertheless, he affirmed this week that the Holy See remains committed to open dialogue.
"The Holy See speaks with everyone, and when necessary we speak also with the , with the and show them what to us are the solutions," he stated.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Reuters" newspaper="Indipendent" title="Iran arrests dozens accused of spying for Israel amid escalating conflict">
Dozens of people accused of collaborating with Israel have been apprehended across , local media reported on Sunday, amid ongoing Israeli and US airstrikes targeting the country.
In northwestern Iran, the semi-official Tasnim news agency stated that 20 people were arrested after being accused by the provincial prosecutor's office of transmitting location data on and security assets to Israel.
Further east, in a region largely untouched by the recent air campaign, Tasnim also reported the arrest of 10 individuals, some of whom are alleged to have gathered intelligence on sensitive sites and economic infrastructure.
A provincial branch of the Revolutionary Guards' intelligence organisation commented on the situation, according to Tasnim: "As the Zionist enemy (Israel) and the U.S. are attempting to invade Iran, they simultaneously activate mercenaries and spies to carry out riots as the next step."
Separately, the Student News Network reported the detention of three people in the western province of Lorestan for "seeking to disturb public opinion (...) and burn mourning symbols."
These arrests coincide with a new phase in Israel's assault on Iran, which now includes targeting security checkpoints based on intelligence from informants on the ground, a source briefed on Israel's military strategy told Reuters this week.
The current tensions follow widespread anti-government protests in Iran in January, weeks before the US and Israel launched their current military actions.
These demonstrations were met with a deadly crackdown, which authorities had previously attributed to Israel and the US, accusing them of fomenting "violent riots" aimed at destabilising the clerical establishment.
Meanwhile, US president Donald Trump told NBC in an interview on Saturday that he is "not ready" to agree to a ceasefire deal with Iran at this stage.
Trump added that "the terms aren't good enough yet" as he called on allies to send warships to help end the blockade in the region.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Reuters" newspaper="Indipendent" title="Football, anthems and war: How Iran's women's football team became centre of an international incident">
It was a moment of silence that spoke a thousand words.
When the Iranian women's national football team refused to sing on Monday, 2 March, they were by state TV presenters. Broadcaster Mohammad Reza Shabazi went as far as saying their actions were the "pinnacle of dishonour".
The silent protest took place at the opening match of the AFC Women's Asian Cup , just days after US-Israeli strikes killed 's supreme leader . Since the beginning of the war, more than 1,300 people in Iran have been killed, and the conflict has spread throughout the Middle East.
Striker as she spoke of her concern for Iran at a press conference on Wednesday last week.
"Obviously, we're all concerned and we're sad at what has happened to and our families in Iran," she said. "I really hope for our country to have good news ahead. And I hope that my country will be strongly alive."Concerns were raised when the team were seen singing the national anthem enthusiastically and saluting in their two subsequent group matches.
After the team were eliminated from the tournament on Sunday, down the street, calling on to "save our girls". There were growing fears that the players and their families could face reprisals for their protest back home, especially after the Islamic Republic's bloody crackdown on widespread demonstrations in January.
One of the mothers of an unnamed player is reported to have sent a voice note to her daughter (who later chose to return to Iran, having not received it), heard by ABC News, pleading: "Don't come [back to Iran]... they'll kill you."
President Donald Trump intervened and offered the team refuge in the United States on the same day, insisting the women would "most likely be killed" if they were to return home.
Seven of the team have since been offered asylum in Australia, but at least one woman has changed her mind after the rest of the 26-member group, including support staff, decided to return home. Iranian delegates are reported to have chased the women as they left their hotel with Australian police.
Fatemeh Pasandideh, 21, team captain Zahra Ghanbari, 34, Zahra Sarbali, 32, Atefeh Ramezanizadeh, 33 and Mona Hamoudi 32, were granted a 12-month humanitarian visa by the state.
Mohaddeseh Zolfi and support staff member Zahra Soltan Meshkeh Kar were also separated from the group and taken to a Brisbane police base after expressing a wish to remain in Australia. However, one of the women, who has not been named, changed her mind.
Local activist Deniz Toupchi said the woman is the daughter of the mother who sent the voice note: "It seems [the player] decided to stay first initially, but then unfortunately, at the very last minute, she has changed her decision, and she's now in Kuala Lumpur."
Ms Toupchi says the women, some as young as 21, have faced huge pressure from the Iranian establishment to return home.
Australian authorities insist that the team were supported by a "very significant police presence" and were separated from minders while being supported by translators in order to confirm the choice was their own.
Home affairs minister Tony Burke told parliament that the member of the group "had spoken to some of the teammates that left and changed their mind" and had been "encouraged to contact the Iranian embassy".
As a result of the phone call, the Iranian embassy became aware of the location of the women, who then had to be relocated. Australian officials are reported to have "made sure this was her decision" before the woman, who has not been named, agreed to leave.
Local activists and lawyers involved in supporting the women described the tension surrounding their decision to leave or remain.
"They were under a lot of stress. They didn't know what to do, they were worried about their family, their assets in Iran, what is the best decision to make now: 'What if we stay here and we lose all our assets in Iran?'" migration agent Melody Naghmeh Danai told ABC News.
It was also difficult for the team to access the internet and the outside world, according to reports.
"We send a message, we can see they didn't receive the message, and then they get internet, and we count the two blue ticks on WhatsApp," Hesam Orouji, a local Iranian human rights activist, told the BBC.
He added that some of the players were not aware they had been offered asylum. "When we said to one of the [remaining members of the team], do you know the women already have their , they said, no way!"
Others suggested that the group were accompanied by members of the Iranian establishment. Ms Toupchi said Iranian officials were "asking the players to go back to Iran because their families are concerned", which she interpreted as effectively holding the families "hostage".
Sources told The New York Times that the group were forced to hand over large sums of money that would be returned to them if they were "well-behaved". Reports allege that the women were forced to surrender their passports and phones to minders from the Iranian establishment upon their arrival in Australia.
Iranian governmental figures also issued public messages to the women, urging them to return home.
"These loved ones are invited to return to their homeland with peace and confidence, and in addition to addressing the concerns of their families," the Iranian general prosecutor's office was quoted as saying by the Tasnim news agency.
Meanwhile, Iran's minister of foreign affairs Esmail Baghaei asked the group to "come home" and wrote on X on Tuesday: "To Iran's women's football team: don't worry – Iran awaits you with open arms."
However, the TV channel Iran International reported on Thursday that the women were kept under extremely tight security when they landed in Kuala Lumpur, according to sources. Some had their phones confiscated, while others were able to keep their devices under the strict supervision of security personnel.
On Friday, the Iranian football federation FFIRI posted a statement reportedly by the team's coach, Marziyeh Jafari, in which she blamed the "heavy atmosphere" created in Australia for the women's decision to stay behind. But, she said, the "greater mistake" was made by the presenter who initially made "the call to arms against the daughters ​of this land".
It is not their first brush with scandal. Ghanbari was briefly banned from playing the sport when the star midfielder's hijab slipped off during a game in October 2024, exposing her hair to the world.
When her club, Bam Khatoon, won the league again in February this year, Ramezanizadeh shared a sombre picture of the winning trophy alongside a caption proclaiming the team's "heavy hearts".
"When our people are grieving the loss of their loved ones, it becomes difficult to celebrate," an Instagram caption read at the time.
"We dedicate this championship to all the people, and we hope it brings a small amount of warmth to their hearts."
Two players, Zahra Alizadeh and Kosar Kamali, and at least one referee, Niloufar Mirkarimi, had already resigned from the team on 19 February in response to a brutal crackdown on dissent in Iran that has killed at least 7,000 to date. Social media posts announcing their departure were taken down, according to Iranian media.
An unknown number of people in Iran have been arrested and detained as a climate of suspicion against foreign interference has proliferated across the country.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Will Weissert" newspaper="HuffPost" title="Two Weeks Into War With Iran, Trump Has Been Knocked Back On His Political Heels">
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — In the two weeks since the U.S. and Israel launched , President increasingly has been knocked on his political heels.
He's grown more agitated with news coverage and has to explain why he started the war — or how he will end it — that resonates with a by American deaths in the conflict, and dropping . Even are questioning his plan and his overall are declining.
Meanwhile, Moscow is getting a boost from the war's early days after Trump eased sanctions on some Russian oil shipments. That, combined with rising oil prices, undercut the yearslong push to crimp President Vladimir Putin's ability to .
Then there are after Trump won the 2024 election. With control of Congress at stake in , the party has come together to oppose Trump's Iran policy and point to the economic turmoil as proof that haven't kept their promises .
"I think are well-positioned for this November and the midterms," said Kelly Dietrich, CEO of the National Democratic Training Committee, which trains party backers to run for office and staff campaigns.
Dietrich said the past two weeks show the Trump administration has failed at long-term planning. "They're flying by the seat of their pants, and rest of us are paying the price," he said.Trump seeks help securing the Strait of Hormuz
On Saturday, Trump spent hours at his , Florida, before attending a closed-door fundraiser for his super PAC at his Mar-a-Lago estate.
Last weekend, he also golfed at another of his South Florida properties a day after witnessing the dignified transfer for six killed in the Iran war. That this past week.
Trump is increasingly coverage of the conflict, on Saturday writing: "Media actually want us to lose the War." His to pull broadcast licenses unless they "correct course."
The president — who kept about his war plans for Iran — also for the first time suggested the U.S. would need to lean on the international community to help oil tankers move through the , where transportation has been severely disrupted, throwing global energy markets into a tailspin.
Iran has said it plans to on energy infrastructure and use its effective closure of the strait as leverage against the United States and Israel. A fifth of the world's traded oil flows through the waterway.
"Many Countries, especially those who are affected by Iran's attempted closure of the Hormuz Strait, will be sending War Ships, in conjunction with the United States of America, to keep the Strait open and safe," Trump wrote on Saturday, later adding, "this should have always been a team effort."
It was not clear if that multination push was set to begin or if Trump only hoped it might, however. That's because he also wrote: "Hopefully China, France, Japan, South Korea, the UK, and others, that are affected" will "send Ships to the area so that the Hormuz Strait will no longer" be threatened by Iran.
The White House has not provided further details on what Trump's post meant but other countries have reacted to it cautiously. South Korea plans to "closely coordinate and carefully review" Trump's comments, while Japan is closely watching developments. Britain's defense ministry said it was "discussing with our allies and partners a range of options to ensure the security of shipping in the region"
Trump had pledged at the beginning of the war that U.S. naval ships would escort tankers through the waterway. But that hasn't happened yet. "It'll happen soon. Very soon," he insisted while boarding Air Force One to fly to Florida on Friday night.
Still, questions about the strait continue to undermine Trump's recent pronouncement during a Kentucky rally that, "We've won."
"You know, you never like to say too early you won. We won," he said. "We won the, in the first hour, it was over."The war has far-reaching political implications
The U.S. Treasury Department also announced this past week a aiming to free up Russian oil cargoes stranded at sea to help ease caused by the Iran war.That's despite analysts saying that spiraling oil prices due to Persian Gulf production blockages are . Moscow relies heavily on oil revenue to finance its war on Ukraine, and sanctions were .
Some of Washington's key allies have decried the move as empowering Putin. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called easing sanctions "not the right decision" and "certainly does not help peace" because it leads to a "strengthening of Russia's position."
With midterm races now starting to heat up, Trump was asked Friday night about who believe gas is too expensive.
"You're going to see a very big decrease in the prices of gasoline, gas, anything having to do with energy, as soon as this is ended," Trump said.
Still, Energy Secretary Chris Wright said on NBC's "Meet the Press" on Sunday of higher energy prices: "Americans are feeling it right now" and would "for a few more weeks."
The longer the conflict goes, the more pronounced questions about the midterms will become. Sen. Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican, suggested on Channel this past week that if gas and oil prices continue to stay high "you're going to see a disastrous election" for the GOP.
Iran also has even , between those who support the action and others who say that Trump expressly campaigned on ending wars.
Leading figures on the right, including and Megyn Kelly, have sharply criticized Trump. Trump, though, has continued to insist that he created the MAGA movement and that it will follow him anywhere, on any issue.
The political turbulence has some Democrats predicting their party could see midterm gains rivaling 2018's "blue wave" election during Trump's first term.
"Democrats just have to keep reminding people that he made a promise to bring prices down, and they're still going up," Democratic strategist Brad Bannon said of Trump. "And now they're going to go up even more because prices in gasoline can increase prices of everything else, including at the grocery store.

</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Sam Metz, Samy Magdy and Julia Frankel" newspaper="HuffPost" title="Gulf Arab States Intercept New Missiles And Drones As Iran Threatens To Widen War">

CAIRO (AP) — Gulf Arab states reported on Sunday after Iran threatened to widen its campaign and called for the evacuation of three major ports in the United Arab Emirates as the , now in its third week, expands further.
Israel and the United States attacked Iran on Feb. 28, saying they were striking nuclear and military sites and encouraging the Iranian people to rise against their leaders. Iran has responded with attacks against Israel and neighboring countries in the Persian Gulf.
The war has upended global air travel, disrupted oil exports from the region and sent fuel prices rising.
U.S. President said he hoped countries reliant on oil and gas exports would send warships to secure the Strait of Hormuz. None responded with firm commitments by Sunday, though some said they were considering action.
Israel said it continued to strike Iran on Sunday as Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and the UAE told residents they were working to intercept incoming projectiles, a day after Iran threatened three Emirati ports, the first time it has done so against a neighboring .
Iran had earlier accused the U.S. of launching Friday's strikes on from the UAE, without providing evidence for the claim. The UAE and other Gulf countries that host U.S. bases have denied allowing their land or airspace to be used for military operations against Iran, including toward the island, home to Iran's primary oil terminal.Iran says the US attacked from the UAE
Iran's foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, said the U.S. attacked Kharg and Abu Musa islands from locations in the UAE. He called the escalation dangerous and said Iran "will try to be careful not to attack any populated area" there.
U.S. Central Command said it had no response to Iran's claim.
Anwar Gargash, a diplomatic adviser to the UAE president, rejected Iran's claim that the U.S. used Emirati land or air space for its attacks on Kharg Island.
Iran has fired hundreds of missiles and drones at the UAE, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Oman during . It says it targets U.S. assets, even as Iranian strikes are reported at civilian sites such as airports and oil fields. Though their air defenses have intercepted most, the war has caused significant damage and rattled economies in the Gulf countries.
Araghchi also told the London-based Al-Araby al-Jadeed on Sunday that Iran is ready to consider any proposal that includes "a complete end" to the war and said mediation efforts were ongoing between Iran and its neighbors to de-escalate.
He gave no indication on whether progress has been made.Trump urges countries to send warships to Strait of Hormuz
As global anxiety soars over , Trump said Saturday he hopes China, France, Japan, South Korea, the United Kingdom and others send warships to keep the Strait of Hormuz "open and safe." Those countries rely more heavily than the U.S. on oil and gas that passes through the strait.
"We are intensively looking with our allies at what can be done, because it's so important that we get the strait reopened," U.K. Energy Secretary Ed Miliband told Sky News, adding that "ending this conflict is the best and surest way to get the strait reopened."
South Korea's Foreign Ministry said it would coordinate closely with Washington and review Trump's proposal.
Araghchi, in a social media post, described Trump's call as "begging." Iran's joint military command reiterated its threat to attack the region's U.S.-linked "oil, economic and energy infrastructures" if the Islamic Republic's oil infrastructure is hit.
A war's mounting toll
Since the war started, Iranian strikes civilians in Gulf countries, most of them migrant workers.
In Iran, the International Committee for the Red Cross said more than 1,300 people have been killed so far. Iran's Health Ministry says 223 women and 202 children are among those killed, according to Mizan, the judiciary's official news agency.
In Israel, 12 people have been killed by Iranian missile fire and more have been injured, including three on Sunday. At least 13 members of the U.S. military have also been killed since the war began; six of them last week.
Meanwhile, at least 820 people have been killed in Lebanon, according to its Health Ministry, and since Iran-backed Hezbollah started hitting Israel and Israel responded with strikes and sent additional troops into southern Lebanon.Rain deepens misery in Lebanon
In downtown Beirut, displaced families fixed tents battered by wind and rain on Sunday.
Fadi Younes, displaced from Beirut's southern suburbs, told The Associated Press that his mattresses and blankets were soaked.
"We don't know where this will end," he said, adding he hoped to return home. "A person only truly feels at ease in their own home."
In Haret Hreik, one of the southern suburbs, there was scarcely a person in sight when crews arrived to clear the streets of rubble.
"The important thing is that the roads remain open for hospitals and for people," excavator driver Hachem Fadlallah said.
In just 10 days, more than 800,000 people — nearly one out of every seven residents of Lebanon — have been displaced, just over a year since the last conflict uprooted over a million Lebanese from their homes.Israel is hit with more Iranian missile strikes
Iran fired barrages of missiles toward Israel on Sunday, sending residents rushing to shelters as sirens sounded and several strikes hit central Israel and the Tel Aviv area.
Magen David Adom, Israel's rescue service, released video showing a large crater in a street and shrapnel damage to an apartment building.
Strikes in the Tel Aviv region caused damage at 23 sites and sparked a small fire Sunday.
Multi-site impacts have become a hallmark of the war, as Israel's military says Iran is firing and scatter submunitions across multiple locations.
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Steve Holland, Humeyra Pamuk, Parisa Hafezi and Alexander Cornwell" newspaper="HuffPost" title="Trump Rejects Efforts To Launch Iran Ceasefire Talks, Sources Say">

WASHINGTON/DUBAI/TEL AVIV, March 14 (Reuters) - President 's administration has rebuffed efforts by Middle Eastern allies to start diplomatic negotiations aimed at ending the Iran war that started two weeks ago with a massive U.S.-Israeli air assault, according to three sources familiar with the efforts.
Iran, for its part, has rejected the possibility of any ceasefire until U.S. and Israeli strikes end, two senior Iranian sources told Reuters, adding that several countries had been trying to mediate an end to the conflict.
The lack of interest from Washington and Tehran suggests both sides are digging in for an extended conflict, even as the widening war inflicts civilian casualties and Iran's closure of the Strait of Hormuz sends oil prices soaring.
U.S. strikes on Iran's Kharg Island, the country's main oil export hub, on Friday night underscored Trump's determination to press ahead with his military assault. Iran's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei has vowed to keep the Strait of Hormuz shut and threatened to step up attacks on neighboring countries.
The war has killed more than 2,000 people, mostly in Iran, and created the biggest-ever oil supply disruption as maritime traffic has halted in the Strait of Hormuz, through which a fifth of the world's oil is transported.
ATTEMPTS TO OPEN LINES OF COMMUNICATION
Oman, which mediated talks before the war, has tried multiple times to open a line of communication, but the White House has made clear it is not interested, according to two sources, who, like others in this story, were granted anonymity in order to speak freely about diplomatic matters.
A senior White House official confirmed Trump has rebuffed those efforts to start talks and is focused on pressing ahead with the war to further weaken Tehran's military capabilities.
"He's not interested in that right now, and we're going to continue with the mission unabated. Maybe there's a day, but not right now," the official said.
During the first week of the war, Trump wrote on his platform that Iran's leadership and military were so battered by U.S.-Israeli strikes that they wanted to talk, but that it was "Too Late!" He has a history of shifting foreign policy stances without warning, making it hard to rule out that he might test the waters for restarting diplomacy.
"President Trump said new potential leadership in Iran has indicated they want to talk and eventually will talk. For now, Operation Epic Fury continues unabated," a second senior White House official said when asked to comment on this story.
The Iranian sources said Tehran has rejected efforts by several countries to negotiate a ceasefire until the U.S. and Israel end their airstrikes and meet Iran's demands, which include a permanent end to U.S. and Israeli attacks and compensation as part of a ceasefire.
Egypt, which was involved in mediation before the war, has also tried to reopen communications, according to three security and diplomatic sources. While the efforts do not appear to have made progress, they have secured some military restraint from neighboring countries hit by Iran, according to one of the sources.
Egypt's foreign ministry, the government of Oman and the Iranian government did not respond to requests for comment.
POSITIONS HARDEN ON ALL SIDES
The war's impact on global oil markets has significantly increased the cost for the United States.
Some U.S. officials and advisers to Trump urge a quick end to the war, warning that surging gasoline prices could exact a high political price from the president's , with U.S. midterm elections looming.
Others are pressing Trump to maintain the offensive against the Islamic Republic to destroy its missile program and prevent it from obtaining a nuclear weapon, according to Reuters reporting.
Trump's rejection of diplomatic efforts could indicate that, for now, the administration has no plans for a quick end to the war.
Indeed, both the United States and Iran appear even less willing to engage than during the opening days of the war, when senior U.S. officials reached out to Oman to discuss de-escalating, according to several sources.
One source said Iran's top security official, Ali Larijani, and Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi had also sought to use Oman as a conduit for ceasefire discussions that would have involved U.S. Vice President JD Vance.
But those discussions have not materialized.
Instead, Iran's position has hardened, said a third senior Iranian source.
"Whatever was communicated previously through the diplomatic channels is irrelevant now," said the source.
"The Guards strongly believe that if they lose control over the Strait of Hormuz, Iran will lose the war," the source added, referring to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, an elite paramilitary force that controls large parts of the economy.
"Therefore, the Guards will not accept any ceasefire, ceasefire talks, or diplomatic efforts, and Iran's political leaders will not engage in such talks despite attempts by several countries." (Additional reporting by Erin Banco, Samia Nakhoul, Andrew Mills, Matt Spetalnick and Alexander Dziadosz; Writing by Andy Sullivan; Editing by Don Durfee and Rod Nickel)
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Reuters" newspaper="HuffPost" title="Israel Is Running Critically Low On Interceptors, Semafor Reports">

March 14 (Reuters) - Israel informed the U.S. this week that it is running critically low on ballistic missile interceptors as the conflict with Iran continues, Semafor reported on Saturday, citing U.S. officials familiar with the matter.
Reuters could not immediately verify the report.
The U.S. has been aware of Israel's low capacity for months, the report said, adding that it is not running low on interceptors of its own. (Reporting by Ananya Palyekar in Bengaluru; Editing by Andrea Ricci)
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-14" author="Reuters" newspaper="HuffPost" title="Trump Says 'Many Countries' Will Send Warships To Keep Strait Of Hormuz Open">

March 14 (Reuters) - U.S. President said on Saturday that many countries would send warships to keep the Strait of Hormuz open for shipping, but did not provide details on which countries would do so.
"Many Countries, especially those who are affected by Iran's attempted closure of the Hormuz Strait, will be sending War Ships, in conjunction with the United States of America, to keep the Strait open and safe," Trump wrote in a post on .
Trump said he hoped that China, France, Japan, South Korea, Britain and others would send ships to the area.
"In the meantime, the United States will be bombing the hell out of the shoreline, and continually shooting Iranian Boats and Ships out of the water," he wrote.
The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on whether any countries had agreed to send ships.
Western nations have bolstered their military presence in the eastern Mediterranean during the , focusing on the security of Cyprus after an a British military base on the island on March 2.
Britain is also exploring to the Gulf after Iran stepped up attacks on vessels, defense minister John Healey said on Thursday. The British government is talking to allies and partners about "a range of options to ensure the security of shipping in the region," a Ministry of Defence spokesperson said on Saturday.
The French Navy , including its aircraft carrier strike group, to the Mediterranean, Red Sea and potentially the Strait of Hormuz as part of defensive support to allies threatened by the conflict.
France has been consulting with European, Asian and Gulf Arab states over the past week with a view to putting together a plan for warships eventually to escort tankers through the strait, .
Trump said on Thursday the U.S. through the Strait of Hormuz to protect them from Iranian attack, as his administration searches for ways to ease high oil prices fuelled by the U.S.-Israeli war on Iran.
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Hannah Ellis-Petersen" newspaper="The Guardian" title="Trump's call for allied deployment to strait of Hormuz meets muted response">

Countries including the UK, Japan, China and South Korea have said they are still considering their options but without making commitments after the US president, Donald Trump, urged them to the strait of Hormuz to secure the vital shipping route.
In a post on his Truth Social platform, Trump called on the UK, China, France, Japan, and other countries to send ships to the waterway, the world's busiest shipping route, which is being violently blockaded by Iran.
In his post, Trump alleged that "many countries, especially those who are affected by Iran's attempted closure of the Hormuz strait, will be sending war ships, in conjunction with the United States of America, to keep the strait open and safe".
In a later post, Trump extended his call to all "the countries of the world that receive oil through the Hormuz strait" to send naval support.
The effective by Tehran, in retaliation for airstrikes by the US and Israel, has proved catastrophic for global energy and trade flows, causing the and soaring global oil prices.
However, the international response to Trump's call for the dispatch of warships has so far proved vague and reluctant, with countries unwilling to commit to a military response that could prove treacherous for their navies.
Tehran has said any oil tanker heading for the US, Israel or its allies is a legitimate target in the war and will be "immediately destroyed". Sixteen tankers have been attacked in the strait of Hormuz since the war started at the end of February and Iran has threatened to lay explosive mines in the waterway. So far, the US has not sent its own navy ships to escort tankers through the strait.
A statement by the UK Ministry of Defence said it was in discussions with allies over "a range of options to ensure the security of shipping in the region".
Speaking on the BBC, the energy secretary, Ed Miliband, said the UK had been in discussion with the US and other allies on how to keep the strait open and were . "Any options that can help to get the strait reopened are being looked at," said Miliband.
A senior Japanese politician told the news channel NHK TV that would not rule out sending warships to the region to secure the shipping lane but said the threshold for doing so was "very high".
Takayuki Kobayashi, the chair of the ruling Liberal Democratic party's policy research council, said: "From a legal standpoint, the possibility cannot be ruled out, but given that the dispute is continuing, this is something we should judge cautiously."
South Korea, heavily dependent on energy flows through the strait, said it had taken note of Trump's comments but would communicate closely with the US and review the situation before making any decisions on how to help secure the shipping route.
"Our government is closely monitoring developments related to the Middle East situation," said South Korea's foreign ministry in a statement, adding that they were "exploring various measures from multiple angles to protect our citizens and secure the safety of energy transport routes".
France had already made its position clear before Trump's comments. Speaking on Thursday, the French defence minister, Catherine Vautrin, said France would not be sending warships to the strait of Hormuz while the conflict continued to escalate.
"I'm very clear and firm on this topic; at this point, there is no question of sending any vessels to the strait of Hormuz," said Vautrin. She said that France maintained a "purely defensive position" and there were no current plans to move the French navy's flagship vessel, the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier, out of the eastern Mediterranean.
Speaking in Cyprus earlier in the week, the French president, , had said that France and its allies were preparing a "purely defensive" mission to escort vessels through the strait of Hormuz, but only once the "most intense phase" of the US-Israeli war on Iran ends. Macron described it as a "purely escort mission" with involvement by both European and non-European countries.
According to the Financial Times, EU foreign affairs ministers are also considering widening the scope of the EU's Aspides naval mission, which currently provides protection to ships in Yemen from attacks by Houthi rebels, to extend to the strait of Hormuz. The Aspides naval mission currently consists of three ships from France, Italy and Greece.
China's response made no mention of military intervention. As an ally of Iran that is also highly dependent on crude oil imports from the strait, is reportedly in talks with the Iranian regime about allowing oil tankers to pass through from the Gulf, but no definitive outcome has been agreed.
In a statement given to CNN by the Chinese embassy in Washington over the weekend, they said China would work to strengthen "communication with relevant parties" in the Middle East and "play a constructive role for deescalation and restoration of peace".
The US energy secretary, Chris Wright, told NBC on Sunday that he had been "in dialogue" with some of the countries, without naming them, and said he expected China would be "a constructive partner" in reopening the strait through which one-fifth of global oil exports normally pass.
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Adam Gabbatt" newspaper="The Guardian" title="'War leader' Trump fixates on trivial matters as Iran death toll mounts">

More than two weeks into the US-Israel war on , and the conflict appears at risk of spiraling out of control.
Back home, Donald Trump's behavior also appears chaotic. A foreign conflict typically brings somber reflection from leaders: in Trump's case, it has brought a stream of behavior that has defied norms and raised eyebrows over his state of mind.
Take last Sunday, for example: the Pentagon solemnly announced that a seventh US service member had been killed in the Iran conflict. Trump spent the day , where he appeared to be wearing the same baseball cap he wore during of dead military members on Saturday.
That same day, Trump spoke at a "Shield of the Americas" summit, alongside a group of Latin American leaders. He told heads of countries, including El Salvador and Honduras, that Marco Rubio, his secretary of state, has "a language advantage over me", because Rubio speaks Spanish.
Trump, the oldest person to be elected president, said he was able to function without speaking Spanish, however.
"Just give me a good interpreter. Interpreter, very important," the president said.
"And I know if somebody's good. I may not speak the language, but I know – I had an interpreter recently that wasn't good, talking to a very strong person from a different part of the world, and I could tell, even though I – even though I don't speak the language, I could tell the interpreter was not good."
He added: "The interpreter is – I talk about it all the time – interpreters are really important. When you don't speak the language and they don't speak the language, it's, you're, people have no idea. People have no idea how valuable – and I'm on them all the time – people have no idea how valuable a good interpreter is. But over the last year, the world has witnessed the supreme power of the United States. We're the most powerful military country in the world."
Trump's odd weekend came after he had eight separate times on Friday about how he had fallen out with Bill Maher, the American TV host and comedian. Maher has no connection to the war in Iran.
In truth, Trump's conduct had been strange before that. On 3 March, the Pentagon named four of the US military killed in the war. Trump did not mention the troops on his Truth Social account, but the president did post: a photograph of himself, wearing wayfarer sunglasses, which had the text "the most badass president of all time"; bragging about how many people watched his State of the Union address; and a of him and Melania announcing their engagement on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
"I think it reflects a mix-up of the priorities of the president," Emmitt Riley III, associate professor of politics at the University of the South and the president of the National Conference of Black Political Scientists, said of Trump's recent behavior.
"The president has always exemplified these rash behaviors, but I think he sometimes uses that strategically. But the other element of this is the president is older, and all of the critiques that he leveled against Joe Biden's age appear to be impacting him now: we're seeing him falling asleep in cabinet meetings, we're seeing him be temperamental."
Along with the distraction, there has been an element of Trump burying his head in the sand. He has repeatedly touted the importance of low gas prices, which could be problematic politically, given average prices have gone up by about 20% since the war began.
Yet Trump's response has been: it doesn't matter.
He : "The United States is the largest Oil Producer in the World, by far, so when oil prices go up, we make a lot of money. BUT, of far greater interest and importance to me, as President, is stoping [sic] an evil Empire, Iran, from having Nuclear Weapons, and destroying the Middle East and, indeed, the World. I won't ever let that happen!"
It was a stance that seemed to ignore the concerns Americans have over rising oil and gas prices and .
Riley said: "This is a representational dilemma of: how do we expect a person who is a billionaire to actually be concerned about the wellbeing of people who are not of wealth, who are not of that particular economic class? And I think Trump's behavior shows either he's a narcissist, or he just simply doesn't care."
White House assistant press secretary Olivia Wales told the Guardian: "President Trump and all Americans grieve for our fallen heroes who made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. They represent the very best of our country – and we will never forget their service and sacrifice. They gave their lives for a courageous mission that President Trump will continue in order to eliminate the threats posed by the sinister Iranian regime and make our nation and world stronger, safer and more free than ever before."
As the war has stretched on, with no Iranian surrender in sight, Trump's remarks have become increasingly aggressive, the president using language more familiar to a barroom brawl than diplomatic relations.
At 12.33am on Friday, Trump a lengthy post on Truth Social, complaining about the New York Times's reporting on the war. In it he referred to Iranian leadership as "deranged scumbags", adding: "They've been killing innocent people all over the world for 47 years, and now I, as the 47th President of the United States of America, am killing them. What a great honor it is to do so! Thank you for your attention to this matter. President DONALD J. TRUMP"
It is hard to see families of killed or wounded troops finding much comfort in Trump's posts. At 5.44pm on Thursday, US Central Command it had lost a refueling aircraft over western Iraq; it later emerged all six crew members had died.
Trump, who famously avoided the Vietnam war draft because of bone spurs in an unidentified foot, did not comment on the downing of the US plane. However, at 8.57pm he giddily a black and white photo of a younger version of himself dressed in military clothing. "At Military Academy with my parents, Fred and Mary!"
According to biographers, Fred Trump sent the future president to the New York Military Academy, an expensive private school about 60 miles of New York, after he discovered Donald had .
</doc>

<doc date="2026-03-15" author="Jillian Ambrose" newspaper="The Guardian" title="Beyond the strait: why attacks on Kargh Island could keep oil prices high">

About 20 miles off the coast of lies the source of the petrostate's economic lifeblood and the latest target of US military aggression: an 8 sq mile coral island through which nine in every 10 barrels of Iranian crude passes each day.
The US president's decision to launch a weekend attack on Kharg Island, the home of Iran's processing hub and the heart of its economy, is an unsurprising counterstrike to the Iranian regime's ongoing chokehold on the oil market's trade artery.
But uncertainty over future oil production by one of the world's largest producers, is also likely to cause further market volatility after weeks of historic price increases.
Donald Trump ordered the US military attack on Iran's most strategic economic asset on Saturday, exactly two weeks after the US-Israeli strikes which began the war and led to the blocking of the strait of Hormuz.
The bombardment took aim at military assets on the island, and has so far spared oil facilities. But Trump has warned that he may reconsider if Iran refuses to open the strait.
 Trump told NBC News.
Any damage to Kharg Island's oil infrastructure could force Iran to cut production at its oilfields, potentially erasing another 1m barrels from global markets already roiled by cuts from neighbouring Gulf nations unable to ship their crude to international buyers.
Gulf oilfields forced to shut
The world's largest offshore oilfield stretches more than 40 miles from Saudi Arabia's eastern province into the depths of the Gulf. For almost 70 years the Safaniya field has produced millions of barrels of Arabian heavy crude to be sold by the biggest oil-producing country. This week, the field was shut.
The war in Iran has effectively blocked the Gulf states from exporting a fifth of the world's oil supply to the international buyers . Iran's attacks on tankers trapped in the vital trade route have erased an estimated 15m barrels of oil from the global market.
But beyond the in the narrow waterway just a few miles south of Iran lies a quieter threat that risks compounding the and fuelling the recent surge in prices.
The risk is that the world's biggest oil producers will be forced to shut down many of their fields altogether, keeping prices higher for households and businesses for a sustained period. In a worst-case scenario, analysts have forecast oil could pass the record $147.50 a barrel reached in 2008.
Oil producers have scrambled to redirect their crude flows to pipelines and storage facilities, but as their pipes and stockpiles reach the brim, the only option remaining is to turn off the taps. The threat to the Middle East's oilfields is now considered the main driver for the upward march of market prices.
The price of Brent crude, an international benchmark, retreated from highs of $119 a barrel this week as global leaders prepared to call for an of 400m barrels of oil from its member states to temper the market. But prices have begun to inch as oilfields in Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Kuwait have shut down.
The shut-ins – temporary closures of oil and gas wells – combined with damage to some of the region's key energy infrastructure are expected to cut production by 10m barrels a day, according the International Energy Agency.
The war has also disrupted the world's gas supplies. provides about 20% of the world's seaborne gas cargoes but was forced to shut down its liquefied natural gas (LNG) production because of Iranian attacks on its facilities. In response, the price of gas in Europe rose by about 80% to highs of more than €56 a megawatt hour last week.
The Qatari energy minister, Saad al-Kaabi, told the Financial Times it would take "weeks to months" to return to normal deliveries, even if the war ended today. He said the crisis of the world.
"The shut-ins will most certainly prolong higher oil prices – this is the main driver for higher prices that we see right now," Parmar says. The impact is twofold: it compounds the market fears over the world's continuing supply crisis; and raises the risk that production will remain throttled, even in the event that the strait reopens.
The process of restarting a shuttered oilfield is difficult and lengthy. It can take weeks to return a field to full production, depending on the state of the infrastructure and geology. There is also a risk that a field never fully recovers.
"Restarting field production of this scale will be a massive technical exercise," says Jim Burkhard, the global head of crude oil research for S&P Global Energy. "Depending on the reservoir and how long it is [in] shut-in, it could take weeks, months or more to fully restore output."
Saudi Arabia's state-owned oil company, Aramco, has assured the market that it should be able to export 70% of its usual output to customers around the world. It plans to flow crude extracted from the Gulf more than 750 miles west across the kingdom through a pipeline to the Red Sea port of Yanbu. Saudi oil exported via this route has doubled in volume from about 1.5m barrels a day to 3m. Aramco believes this can rise to 5m within days.
Already there are at least 25 massive oil tankers en route to the Red Sea port to help ship Saudi crude to the international market, according to Aditya Saraswat, a director at Rystad Energy. Meanwhile, near the port of Fujairah, which lies to the east of the Hormuz chokepoint, tankers are ready to load crude piped around the strait from the United Arab Emirates' oilfields in the Gulf. Its pipeline crude has climbed from 1.1m barrels a day to 1.6m this week as seaborne trade dwindled, Saraswat adds.
Parmar says the pipeline reroute options can only go so far for Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The latter will have 1m barrels of crude a day that remains unsold via its pipeline, with less than 20 days of available storage. Aramco would have 2m barrels a day unable to leave Saudi Arabia without shutting down Safaniya and the Zuluf field. It has about seven days of storage available.
"Additionally, Iraq, Kuwait and Iran itself have no pipeline capacity to bypass the strait," Parmar added. Oil produced from Iraq's main southern oilfields has fallen by almost three-quarters to just 1.3m barrels a day from pre-crisis levels of 4.3m. It has less than five days of storage remaining. Kuwait pumped about 2.6m barrels a day earlier this year but has made unspecified cuts to its production. It has less than 11 days of storage.
In Saudi Arabia, there are questions over whether the ageing Safaniya field, which began production in 1957, will return to its former levels of output. But Parmar cautions against writing off the engine room of the country's oil industry. "Saudi oilfield and refining capabilities are extremely high-end and it would not surprise me if the company was indeed able to return the field back to previous capacity levels over time," he says.
</docx>
<docx id="file38427343" filename="Right wing articles XML - Rise.docx" parent_folder="upload">
<doc date="2025-06-25" author=" Rachel Wolf " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title="Iran intensifies internal security crackdown after US, Israel strikes">

 internal turmoil as authorities intensify a domestic security crackdown following the 12-day war in which three major nuclear sites were effectively destroyed. There have been reports of mass arrests and executions in the country.
Authorities in Iran began the crackdown following Israel's June 13 airstrikes. It started with widespread arrests and an intensified street presence, , which cited activists and officials.
The harsh measures have dampened hopes—among some in Israel as well as Iranian dissidents—that the country could see an uprising and regime change. However, no significant demonstrations have taken place yet, Reuters reported. The outlet also noted that some on the ground expressed frustration with the Islamic Republic's policies, which they believe led to the war against the .

Armed NOPO special police units are on the scene as Iranians take to the streets in the downtown Enghelab (Revolution) Square in Tehran, Iran on June 24, 2025, to celebrate the ceasefire after a 12-day war with Israel. (NEGAR/Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Images)

"The regime convicts and imposes the death penalty based on trumped-up charges to spread terror among the Iranians. Meanwhile, Israel's Operation Rising Lion has helped the public realize that the Iranian regime is a paper tiger that is weaker than ever,"  (FDD) Senior Iran and Financial Economics Advisor Saeed Ghasseminejad said in a statement.
The  (HRANA) said Monday that 705 individuals had been arrested in Iran on "political or security-related charges." 
This report was echoed by Islamic Republic-run , which said that 700 were detained for allegedly working with Israel.

A police officer stands guard as demonstrators wave flags and cheer during a gathering to honor Iran's military forces, following the announcement of a ceasefire between Israel and Iran, on June 24, 2025, in Tehran, Iran. (Majid Saeedi/Getty Images)

In addition to the arrests, there are reports that three people in Iran accused of being Mossad spies were executed, NBC News reported, citing Tasnim, which is affiliated with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). The outlet also noted that the three were accused of bringing "assassination equipment" disguised as alcoholic beverages into the country. According to NBC News, citing Tasnim, the "equipment" was allegedly used in the assassination of a public figure.

People move past a large banner featuring portraits of slain leaders from Iran-aligned armed groups, including Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar, Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah, and Iranian commander Qasem Soleimani, in central Tehran, Iran, on May 1, 2025.  (MOHAMMADALI NAJIB/Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Images)

Nonprofit  (IHR) warned that at least six others on death row for allegedly spying for Israel are at risk of execution. The organization also said that at least nine individuals have been executed this year on similar charges.

<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Madison Colombo " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Trump vows to hit Iran 'very hard' after obliterating nearly '90 percent' of regime missiles ">

President  revealed more plans for the war with Iran, vowing to continue "decimating" the regime over the coming days and touting the mission as "ahead of schedule."
"We had no idea it would be this far ahead. We've knocked out close to 90% of their missiles," Trump said in an interview that aired Friday on the 
The president said the U.S. has taken out the majority of  and drone manufacturing sites, adding that the military is "hitting them harder than anybody's been hit since World War II."

President Donald Trump sits at a table monitoring military operations during Operation Epic Fury against Iran at the White House in Washington, D.C., on March 2. (The White House via X Account/Anadolu via Getty Images)
While Trump did not provide a specific timeline for the conclusion of what he called an "excursion," he said the U.S. has "."
The president also said the U.S. is prepared to escort vessels through the Strait of Hormuz if necessary to protect oil shipments. The Iranian Navy has claimed responsibility for a series of  transiting the strait.

The disruptions have sent  Trump said the U.S. would escort the vessels "if we needed to," adding that pressure on Iran would increase this week.

Strikes on the Iranian leadership, the IRGC, and Iranian naval vessels and oil infrastructure have roiled the markets. ( Sasan / Middle East Images / AFP via Getty Images)

"We've already damaged them so badly it would take years for them to ever rebuild," Trump said, adding, "And we're going to be hitting them very hard over the next week."
The military campaign has already resulted in the death of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Iranian officials named his son, , as the next supreme leader.  in remarks this week.
The new supreme leader  Thursday vowing that the Strait of Hormuz will remain closed until the war ends and warning neighboring countries that U.S. military bases must be removed.

On Saturday, March 7, at Dover Air Force Base, an Army carry team moves a flag-draped transfer case with the remains of U.S. Army Reserve soldier Sgt. 1st Class Nicole Amor, of White Bear Lake, Minn. Amor was killed in a drone strike at a command center in Kuwait after the U.S. and Israel launched its military campaign against Iran. (Mark Schiefelbein/AP Photo)

In a  Friday, Trump alluded to further imminent action, writing, ", their Air Force is no longer, missiles, drones and everything else are being decimated, and their leaders have been wiped from the face of the earth."
He continued, writing, "We have , unlimited ammunition, and plenty of time - Watch what happens to these deranged scumbags today."
The United States and Israel launched Operation Epic Fury after nuclear negotiations with Tehran failed, a move Trump cited as justification for the military campaign.

<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Efrat Lachter " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iran moves hundreds of millions in crypto during nationwide internet blackout, report reveals">

EXCLUSIVE: Cryptocurrency infrastructure linked to  continued operating during the country's nationwide internet blackout after the Feb. 28 U.S.–Israeli strikes, a cyber intelligence report reviewed by Fox News Digital claims. It allowed hundreds of millions of dollars in crypto to move out of the country.
Omri Raiter, founder and CEO of RAKIA, a cyber intelligence firm that develops data analysis platforms used by governments and security agencies, told Fox News Digital his team began monitoring Iranian cryptocurrency activity in real time after the attacks and quickly detected a surge of funds leaving Iranian-linked crypto accounts.
"We've seen a surge of funds since the first hours of the war," Raiter said. "It started with tens of millions in the first hours, and it grew to hundreds of millions and more. Money was just flowing out from Iranian crypto accounts."
Wallets linked to the IRGC received more than $3 billion in cryptocurrency in 2025, according to the internal report based on blockchain intelligence data cited by RAKIA. The report also cites publicly available data from blockchain analysis firm Chainalysis, which estimated Iran's cryptocurrency ecosystem reached $7.78 billion in activity in 2025.

Strikes on the Iranian leadership, the IRGC and Iranian naval vessels and oil infrastructure have roiled the markets. ( Sasan/Middle East Images / AFP via Getty Images)
Raiter said the data suggests Iran has developed a significant crypto-based financial infrastructure capable of operating even during  and communications shutdowns.
"The IRGC has been financing proxy operations through the very same crypto corridors that sanctions were designed to shut down," Raiter said.
The U.S. Department of the Treasury sanctioned cryptocurrency exchanges tied to Iranian actors Jan. 30, marking one of the first times the U.S. targeted entire digital asset platforms rather than individual wallets for sanctions evasion linked to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Treasury Secretary  said the move was part of a broader effort to disrupt financial networks connected to Tehran, Iran. 
"The Treasury will continue to pursue Iranian networks and corrupt elites who enrich themselves at the expense of the people," Bessent said in a Treasury press release in January. "This also applies to attempts by the regime to use digital assets to circumvent sanctions."
The recent surge appears to reflect two parallel trends: funds moving to support Iran's regional proxy networks and money being moved by individuals connected to the regime seeking to protect their personal wealth, according to RAKIA's analysis. 
"The proxy war funding and the personal capital flight are two sides of the same coin," Raiter said. "They move through the same pipelines."

Tehran's skyline, including the Azadi Tower, became the backdrop to a crisis shaped as much by cyber disruption as by missiles in the sky.  (Kurt "CyberGuy" Knutsson)
Raiter said the firm identified cryptocurrency flows connected to networks previously associated with Iran-backed groups. 
"Some of the accounts we saw are connected to areas where money historically flows to proxy wars," he told Fox News Digital, citing activity  and Yemen.
"Some of it could be people inside the IRGC trying to move their own money," Raiter said. "But when you see the scale and the timing, it looks coordinated."
The report produced by RAKIA claims the activity continued even after Iran imposed a sweeping . National connectivity dropped to roughly 1% of normal levels during the blackout, according to internet monitoring group NetBlocks. 

Military members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in western Tehran, Iran (Morteza Nikoubazl/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
Despite that shutdown, RAKIA researchers said they detected more than 1,100 active cryptocurrency nodes operating inside Iran.
"When the internet is at one percent and you still see over a thousand active crypto nodes, you're not looking at retail users," Tom Malca, RAKIA's head of cyber and AI research, said in the report. "Those nodes require dedicated bandwidth, stable power and deliberate exemption from the shutdown."
RAKIA researchers said the activity suggests specialized infrastructure continued operating even as millions of Iranian civilians were cut off from the internet.
Most of the nodes were concentrated in the Tehran–Qom corridor, according to the report, an area that includes major government and IRGC institutions. Smaller clusters were detected in Iranian cities, including Isfahan, Mashhad, Tabriz and Kermanshah, according to the analysis.

Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps special forces walk on the U.S. flag during a rally commemorating International Quds Day, also known as Jerusalem Day, in Tehran, Iran, March 28, 2025.  (Morteza Nikoubazl/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
RAKIA said its investigation relied on a combination of network monitoring and publicly available blockchain intelligence.
The Iranian mission to the  declined to comment on the report's claims.
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-12" author="Lindsay Kornick " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iranian regime spreading anti-Israel propaganda across dozens of social media accounts: report">

A new Clemson University report found dozens of social media accounts associated with  pushing anti-Israel and anti-U.S. content to sow online discord during the ongoing Iran-U.S. war.
According to a , at least 62 accounts across X, Bluesky and Instagram were found to have connections to the IRGC despite claiming to be users from the Americas, England, Scotland or Ireland. Though most accounts were less than 1 year old, some were created as far back as December 2023.
"All these accounts systematically amplify politically divisive content and disinformation aligned with IRGC narratives, and they are designed to exploit regional fault lines to advance Iranian regime interests," the report said.

Clemson University reported dozens of social media accounts affiliated with the Iranian regime. (Kyaw Soe Oo/Reuters)
Prior to President Donald Trump and Israel's military strikes against Iran, most accounts largely focused on divisive domestic positions. However, after Feb. 28, once Israel and the U.S. launched , they began pushing pro-Tehran messages in favor of the regime.
"There is a coordinated inauthentic social-media campaign targeting online discourse around the war between Israel, the United States, and Iran," the report noted.

The accounts also used several AI-generated images and false videos pushing inaccurate reports on the ongoing strikes.
"It will be important to continue to monitor communities found to be at particular risk of foreign influence to mitigate potential harms to authentic discourse. This is particularly true at times of global crisis," the report concluded.

Accounts on Bluesky, Instagram and X pushed Iranian propaganda against Israel and the United States. (Anna Barclay/Getty Images)
In a response to , Bluesky confirmed that all the accounts listed in the report were taken down for violating community guidelines.
A Meta spokesperson reiterated the company's stance against content promoting terrorism and pointed out that, of the accounts listed in the report, one third of them were not active during the war while the remaining accounts have fewer than 2,000 followers combined.
"Meta prohibits coordinated inauthentic behavior and individuals and organizations tied to terrorism, and we remove violating accounts once we become aware of them," a Meta spokesperson said.
Fox News Digital also reached out to X for comment.

All the accounts followed by Clemson University began posting pro-Iranian messages after President Donald Trump launched military strikes against Iran. (Getty Images; Reuters)
Clemson University located 47 X accounts, nine Instagram accounts and five Bluesky accounts that fell into the IRGC "network."

The university found that X accounts alone created 59,403 original posts that were reposted thousands of times with organic engagement by thousands of followers, potentially reaching millions.
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-06" author="Benjamin Weinthal " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iran proxies wage war on Israel, threaten US interests as Iraq slammed for not disarming them">

FIRST ON FOX: The Israeli military spokesman confirmed to Fox News Digital this week that multiple unmanned aerial vehicles, UAVs, have been launched into Israel from Iraqi territory since the start of the conflict with Iran to eradicate the Islamic Republic of Iran's illicit nuclear weapons facilities, missile systems and terrorism infrastructure. 
Lt. Col. Nadav Shoshani, the Israeli military spokesman, said that the army has had a "near complete success" rate in stopping Iranian drones from hitting Israeli targets. 
The drones fired from Iraq are presumed to come from the Iranian regime-controlled , or PMF. An umbrella organization of Shiite terrorists, that attacked Israel with drones in 2024 during Israel's war against the Tehran-backed Hamas movement. 

A mourner holds a portrait of Iran's slain supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei (top-L) on March 5, 2026, during a funeral procession for members of Iraq's pro-Iran paramilitary group Hezbollah Brigades (Kataeb Hezbollah) who were killed in a strike in Baghdad the previous day. The Tehran-backed Iraqi group Kataeb Hezbollah said on March 5 that one of its commanders was killed in a strike in southern Iraq the previous day. (Ahmed Al-Rubaye/AFP via Getty Images)
An Iraqi Kurdish official told Fox News Digital, "Iraq has become a vessel for the Iranians. Is it so hard to see? I don't see a distinction between the PMF and the state. They're paid by the state, hold sovereign portfolios in this cabinet, go on foreign travel and now they've entered the federal legislature."
The official continued: "In the last two decades, Iran has systemically taken over the state, weaponizing what were supposed to be institutions into tools to protect the Shia regime in Baghdad and punish any threat to it, including the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG). Through Baghdad and state institutions, it has economically strangled the Kurdistan Region, torn strips from our autonomy and exposed us to more attacks."
An attack was reported on the country's shrinking Christian community. The Chaldean Archbishop Bashar Warda of Erbil, Iraq, from the capital city of Iraqi Kurdistan, wrote on X on Thursday: "A miracle no one was injured when 2 drones struck our community, 150 meters from our Catechist Center that serves 1,000 Catholic children. Our university & schools are also closed so the young can be with their parents. Please pray for us & for all who suffer in this war." 
Kurdistan Regional Government authorities confirmed the attack and ​said it was carried out by two ​drones.

Phillip Smyth, an expert on Shiite militias in Iraq, told Fox News Digital about the strikes on the Chaldean Catholic school that "Kata'ib Hezbollah was first to talk about it and it was likely Kata'ib Hezbollah, but it is possible it was another two pro-Iran militias because they all work together on drone launches."
A drone attack struck an oil field operated by U.S. firm HKN Energy in Iraq's ​Kurdistan region on Thursday, causing a fire ‌and halting production, according to a Reuters report citing security sources and an oilfield engineer.
No group claimed responsibility, but Kurdish officials accused Iran-allied Iraqi militias of carrying out the attack.
If so, the attack would mean Iranaligned ​Iraqi militias, who have vowed to retaliate for the killing ‌of ⁠Iran's supreme leader, have expanded targets from U.S. military bases in Iraqi Kurdistan to U.S. energy interests.

A mourner holds a portrait of Iran's slain supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei (top-L) on March 5, 2026, during a funeral procession for members of Iraq's pro-Iran paramilitary group Hezbollah Brigades (Kataeb Hezbollah) who were killed in a strike in Baghdad the previous day. The Tehran-backed Iraqi group Kataeb Hezbollah said on March 5 that one of its commanders was killed in a strike in southern Iraq the previous day. (Ahmed Al-Rubaye/AFP via Getty Images)
Production at the field was halted as a precaution ​after an ​explosion at ⁠its power unit, the engineer told Reuters.
Some ⁠energy companies operating in Iraqi Kurdistan shut oil and gas production at their fields as a precaution ⁠after ​the U.S. and Israel ​launched strikes on neighboring Iran.
Entifadh Qanbar, a former spokesman for the deputy prime minister of Iraq, echoed the comments of the Iraqi Kurdish official in his statement to Fox News Digital: "The Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) are fully funded by the Iraqi government. In fact, they are formally included as a line item in Iraq's federal budget. Officially, more than $3 billion is allocated annually just for salaries, but when logistics, weapons, food, and other operational costs are included, the PMF's budget likely exceeds $10 billion. That is the size of the budget of a small country in the Middle East," he claimed.

Qanbar said there is a way to change Iraq's behavior: "If the United States wants to stop this situation, there are clear tools available. Sanctions must be imposed on the Iraqi government for funding these militias. Another powerful mechanism involves Iraq's oil revenues, which are deposited at the U.S. Federal Reserve. The United States could suspend transfers of those funds unless Baghdad halts the financing of the PMF. Make no mistake: every terrorist who launches drones or rockets against Kurdistan, U.S. interests, Gulf states or military bases is effectively being paid by the Iraqi government," he claimed.

Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al Sudani chairs negotiations between Iraq and the United States to end the International Coalition mission in Baghdad, Iraq, Jan. 27, 2024. President Joe Biden is set to host al Sudani Monday, April 15, for talks that come as tensions across the Middle East have soared over the war in Gaza and Iran's threats to retaliate for an Israeli military strike against an Iranian facility in Syria.  (AP Photo/Hadi Mizban, Pool)
When asked if the Islamic Republic of Iran urged Shiite militias from the PMF to fire drones at Israel, a spokesman for Iran's U.N. mission said, "The Mission declined to comment."
On Tuesday, Iraqi Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani said his government is "not tolerating any attempt aimed at dragging Iraq into war or threatening the country's stability," according to Kurdistan24. 
Salwan Sinjari, chief of staff to the Iraqi foreign minister, referred Fox News Digital to the Iraqi foreign ministry page for official statements by his minister and the government. He did not respond to follow-up messages and calls on whether Iraq's government was failing to crack down on the PMF.

Iran-backed shi'ite groups fighters celebrate on a street, after the IRGC attack on Israel, in Basra, Iraq, Oct. 1, 2024.  (Essam Al-sudani/Reuters)
Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein claimed the government was seeking to convince Iran-backed militias to disarm in January 2025, according to .
However, Iraq's government has issued mixed messages about the PMF over the years. In May 2025 al-Sudani was quoted as saying, "Today, the Popular Mobilization Forces constitute a basic force in defending Iraq."
Iraq's ambassador to the U.S. did not immediately respond to email, WhatsApp and telephone queries. A second Iraqi diplomat said he was unable to provide Fox News Digital a comment.

The Times of Israel reported on Thursday, after military strikes eliminated a senior officer from Kataeb Hezbollah — Iraq's largest pro-Iran militia — south of Baghdad that PMF militias pledged to strike the Middle East interests of European nations that joined in the "Zionist-American" strikes on the Islamic Republic and its proxies.
Fox News Digital reached out to the U.S. State Department.
<\doc>

<doc date="2023-10-07" author="Benjamin Weinthal " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iran-funded terror proxies launch war against Israel amid surprise invasion against Jewish state ">

JERUSALEM, Israel —The Islamic Republic of Iran—a key military and strategic partner of the Palestinian Hamas terrorist movement in the Gaza Strip—is the driving force in the war launched Saturday against the Jewish state, said Israel's Foreign Ministry and Middle East experts. 
Just this week, Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, wrote on X, formerly known as Twitter, about Israel: "The usurper regime is coming to an end. Today, the Palestinian youth and the anti-oppression, anti-occupation movement in Palestine is more energetic, more alive, and more prepared than ever during the past 70 or 80 years. God willing, the movement will achieve its goals." 
The "usurper regime" is Israel for Khamenei, whose jingoistic foreign policy consists of the destruction of the Jewish state and the  on Israel's borders. 
Lior Haiat, the spokesman for Israel's Foreign Minister Eli Cohen, told Fox News Digital on Saturday, "Those terror organizations [Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad] are working as proxies of the Ayatollah regime " in the Islamic Republic. 

Iranian Leader Ali Khamenei and the Islamic Republic of Iran, partners with the Palestenian Hamas terrorist group, are driving the war that was launched against Israel, according to Foreign Ministry and Middle East experts. (Office of the Iranian Supreme Leader/WANA/Reuters )
Haiat added: "Iran is trying for years, especially in the last few months, to have a terror organization, both the Islamic Jihad that is fully supported and financed by Iran, and Hamas terror organization that is also financed but not fully by Iran. They are calling them to attack Israel and Israelis." 
He stressed that Iran is "without a doubt . . . behind the scenes" of this war against Israel. 
The Iranian regime-controlled Tehran Times reported on Saturday that the Islamic Republic backs the Palestinian Hamas and PIJ war against Israel. According to the , Iran's Major General Yahya Rahim Safavi declared the war on Israel as  "glorious" that has murdered at least 100 Israelis. 
"We declare our support for this operation, and we are confident that the Resistance Front also supports this move," Safavi told attendees at the 6th International Conference of Solidarity with Palestinian Youth. He added that Iran will stand alongside the Palestinian resistance "until the liberation of Palestine and al-Quds." 
Iran's reference to Palestine means the Jewish state, and al-Quds is the Arabic name for Jerusalem, the capital of Israel. 
The Iran-backed  follows President Biden's decision just last month to release $6 billion dollars to Iran as part of a prisoner swap.  
While the Biden administration said the funds will be supervised by Qatar and not used for terrorism, Iran's U.S.-sanctioned President Ebrahim Raisi boasted that the money will be used  
Yigal Carmon, the founder and president of the Middle East Media Research Institute (MEMRI), predicted the outbreak of the Iran-backed war in a late August article titled  
Carmon, a former counter-terrorism adviser to two Israeli Prime Ministers, wrote, "There has also been an increase in efforts by Iran and Hezbollah to smuggle weapons into the West Bank, similar to the smuggling of weapons into Gaza." 
 

Rockets into Israel from Gaza Strip (Photos Majdi Fathi/TPS)
Hezbollah is a U.S.-designated Lebanese terrorist movement responsible for the . 
Carmon wrote, "There have recently been increasing reports about the potential use of new weapons by Hezbollah, Hamas and the PIJ that can cause a large number of Israeli fatalities, such as extra-powerful explosive charges and rockets fired on Israeli localities, as mentioned above. In this situation, Israel will likely be compelled to undertake a large-scale response, above and beyond its routine counter-terrorism measures, even at the cost of an all-out war." 
Carmon continued that the Iranian-regime controlled PIJ "secretary-general Ziad Al-Nakhaleh said that, during his June 2023 meeting with Iranian Leader Ali Khamenei, the latter had 'reiterated [the need to] develop the arming of the West Bank and the resistance there." 
Nakhaleh added: "We, as Palestinians and as resistance forces and movements, understand the importance of arming the West Bank, but this requires efforts by the Palestinians themselves, and also the assistance of our brothers in the Islamic Republic of Iran." 
All of this helps to explain Iran's laser-like focus on creating multiple war fronts against the tiny Jewish state. 
 

The militant Hamas rulers of the Gaza Strip carried out an unprecedented, multi-front attack on Israel at daybreak Saturday, firing thousands of rockets as dozens of Hamas fighters infiltrated the heavily fortified border in several locations by air, land and sea and catching the country off guard on a major holiday. (AP Photo/Hassan Eslaiah)
The former Israeli counter-terrorism official, Carmon, told Fox News Digital that Hamas's war is aimed "to prevent normalization " with respect to diplomatic relations.  
Brigadier General (Res) Amir Avivi, a former deputy commander of the Israel Defense Forces' Gaza Division, told Fox News Digital that "Iran funds Hamas by tens of millions of dollars per month. Hamas is an Iranian proxy that dominates the Gaza Strip and is acting in accordance to its instructions, in particular since Hamas' number two Saleh Aruri became a much more dominant figure in the organization." 
Avivi added: "Iran sees Saudi Arabia and other pragmatic Sunni countries begin to normalize relations with Israel and seeks to strengthen the Iranian-Hamas-Hezbollah axis around the Middle East. Hezbollah made a statement calling Arab countries to stop normalization efforts. That is why we have to unite behind the Israeli-American-pragmatic Sunni bloc and defeat terrorism wherever it acts. Iran provides Hamas with ammunition, training and equipment, including smuggling through the Rafah tunnels and training inside Iran." 
 
Texas Republican Senator Ted Cruz blamed Tehran for the war against Israel, writing on X (formerly known as Twitter): "Iran-controlled Hamas terrorists launched a literal war against Israel tonight. Our Israeli allies will now do what they must to defend themselves and I stand with them as they confront this violence and these atrocities. " He added "The United States must continue to support Israel's absolute right to self-defense and ensure it has the military resources and diplomatic support it needs to confront the genocidal Iran-controlled terrorists who seek Israel's destruction." 
The U.S. State Department, under both Republican and Democrat administrations, has designated Iran's regime as the worst international state-sponsor of terrorism.  
 
The $6 billion in unfrozen sanctioned money that was sent to Iran via Qatar's financial system is fungible money and can be used to fund Hamas, PIJ and Hezbollah, according to counter-terror finance experts. 
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Madison Colombo " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Trump vows to hit Iran 'very hard' after obliterating nearly '90 percent' of regime missiles ">

President  revealed more plans for the war with Iran, vowing to continue "decimating" the regime over the coming days and touting the mission as "ahead of schedule."
"We had no idea it would be this far ahead. We've knocked out close to 90% of their missiles," Trump said in an interview that aired Friday on the 
The president said the U.S. has taken out the majority of  and drone manufacturing sites, adding that the military is "hitting them harder than anybody's been hit since World War II."

President Donald Trump sits at a table monitoring military operations during Operation Epic Fury against Iran at the White House in Washington, D.C., on March 2. (The White House via X Account/Anadolu via Getty Images)
While Trump did not provide a specific timeline for the conclusion of what he called an "excursion," he said the U.S. has "."
The president also said the U.S. is prepared to escort vessels through the Strait of Hormuz if necessary to protect oil shipments. The Iranian Navy has claimed responsibility for a series of  transiting the strait.

The disruptions have sent  Trump said the U.S. would escort the vessels "if we needed to," adding that pressure on Iran would increase this week.

Strikes on the Iranian leadership, the IRGC, and Iranian naval vessels and oil infrastructure have roiled the markets. ( Sasan / Middle East Images / AFP via Getty Images)

"We've already damaged them so badly it would take years for them to ever rebuild," Trump said, adding, "And we're going to be hitting them very hard over the next week."
The military campaign has already resulted in the death of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Iranian officials named his son, , as the next supreme leader.  in remarks this week.
The new supreme leader  Thursday vowing that the Strait of Hormuz will remain closed until the war ends and warning neighboring countries that U.S. military bases must be removed.

On Saturday, March 7, at Dover Air Force Base, an Army carry team moves a flag-draped transfer case with the remains of U.S. Army Reserve soldier Sgt. 1st Class Nicole Amor, of White Bear Lake, Minn. Amor was killed in a drone strike at a command center in Kuwait after the U.S. and Israel launched its military campaign against Iran. (Mark Schiefelbein/AP Photo)

In a  Friday, Trump alluded to further imminent action, writing, ", their Air Force is no longer, missiles, drones and everything else are being decimated, and their leaders have been wiped from the face of the earth."
He continued, writing, "We have , unlimited ammunition, and plenty of time - Watch what happens to these deranged scumbags today."
The United States and Israel launched Operation Epic Fury after nuclear negotiations with Tehran failed, a move Trump cited as justification for the military campaign.
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Landon Mion , Alex Nitzberg " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Trump says US 'totally destroying' Iran: 'Watch what happens to these deranged scumbags today'">

President  said on Friday that the U.S. was "totally destroying" and "killing" Iran, warning to watch "what happens to these deranged scumbags today."
"We are totally destroying the , militarily, economically, and otherwise," Trump wrote on Truth Social in the early morning hours on Friday.
"Iran's Navy is gone, their Air Force is no longer, missiles, drones and everything else are being decimated, and their leaders have been wiped from the face of the earth," he . "We have unparalleled firepower, unlimited ammunition, and plenty of time."

President Donald Trump waves as he boards Air Force One on March 11, 2026, at Joint Base Andrews, Maryland. (Andrew Harnik/Getty Images)
Trump also appeared to signal significant developments later on Friday, writing, "Watch what happens to these deranged scumbags today."
"They've been killing innocent people all over the world for 47 years, and now I, as the 47th President of the United States of America, am killing them. What a great honor it is to do so!" the president said.

Smoke and flames rise at the site of airstrikes on an oil depot in Tehran on March 7, 2026. (Sasan / Middle East Images / AFP via Getty Images)
The president's post comes nearly two weeks since he launched the U.S. war against Iran in conjunction with close U.S. ally  on February 28.
The effort has proven controversial, and Americans have been facing surging gas prices domestically during the conflict.

"The United States is the largest Oil Producer in the World, by far, so when oil prices go up, we make a lot of money. BUT, of far greater interest and importance to me, as President, is stoping an evil Empire, Iran, from having Nuclear Weapons, and destroying the Middle East and, indeed, the World. I won't ever let that happen!" Trump declared in a Truth Social  on Thursday.
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-13" author="Dr. Kevin Roberts " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Trump's Operation Epic Fury proves Reagan-style peace through strength is back">

In just a few days,  Iran's leadership, degraded its capacity to terrorize the West, and — for the moment — united the Middle East and most of the world around a vital American interest.
It's still early, of course. But so far, President  has achieved a strategic masterstroke. He has done so by reviving America's oldest, simplest and best national security policy: peace through strength.
Yet Washington Democrats are blasting the president for ordering the attacks at all. They still cling, bitterly, to President 's delusion of pacifying the ayatollahs through diplomacy and appeasement, not only lifting sanctions but literally delivering pallets of cash to one of America's most dangerous enemies. On the other side of the aisle, some principled MAGA conservatives are understandably wary of another forever war in the Middle East.

But both critiques misapprehend this mission, this commander in chief, and his national security strategy.

First, the president's Go order Friday morning was not a rejection of diplomacy. It was an acknowledgment that diplomacy with Supreme Leader  was impossible. Eight American presidents have tried to deal with Iran since the 1979 revolution. After 47 years of theft, murder and terror, even Donald Trump was forced to acknowledge there was no deal there for America to make.
Diplomacy that isn't ultimately backstopped by force isn't diplomacy. It's weakness — the kind that invites rather than prevents wars.
Once Trump decided to act, he ensured our troops would work hand-in-glove with the region's most lethal military and best intelligence, courtesy of our .

Second, Donald Trump is neither a Messianic crusader nor a naive nation-builder. He has been president for five years, and the closest thing to a "forever war" he has ever started was his boycott of the White House Correspondents Dinner – and even that is coming to an end. Trump has been a peaceable president and, indeed, a peacemaker. His military interventions have been uniformly swift, decisive and effective.

Peace through strength is most associated with  during the Cold War. But its principles can be seen in the foreign policies — however diverse in application — of Richard Nixon, Franklin and Theodore Roosevelt, and the Founding generation.
George Washington said, "To be prepared for war is one of the most effective means of preserving peace." So is applying overwhelming force to quickly resolve discrete, urgent national threats diplomacy cannot. Trump has hewn closer to both rules than any president in a generation.

As the Heritage Foundation documents in our new 2026 Index of Military Strength, President Trump has built his administration, , and his global strategy around the defense of America's vital interests. Remnants of his predecessors' globalism and politicization still rattle around the federal budget and nat-sec bureaucracy. But Trump is reforming our military more rapidly and comprehensively than most experts give him credit for.
It's not luck.
Trump's pragmatic peace-through-strength approach protects himself, our troops, and our nation from potential quagmires. Even as spirits are running high this week, Trump speaks humbly about the narrow, modest goals of  decapitate and defang the regime and then hand the country over to the Iranian people.

No chest-thumping about a New World Order. No cringy, "Islam means peace" pandering. No "cakewalk" hubris. Just a straightforward settling of accounts with the beating heart of global terrorism and the oil-rich co-conspirator in Russian and Chinese mischief.
In a just world, Epic Fury would put an end to the 's habit of smearing the America First Right as "isolationist." Conservative critics of Bush-era adventurism were never any such thing. That is why most of us are cheering Trump's leadership in Iran today.

A targeted,  to decades of violent aggression and years of diplomatic stonewalling is what peace through strength looks like. So do President Trump and War Secretary 's reforms of the Pentagon budget. So do Vice President JD Vance and Secretary of State Marco Rubio's frank, but friendly speeches, at the last two Munich Security Conferences.
Operation Epic Fury, like President Trump's prior interventions in Iran and Venezuela, do not contradict his , Ukraine and elsewhere. They are all applications of peace through strength, the only American foreign policy that has ever really worked.
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-10" author=" Paul Steinhauser " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Where American support for Trump's Iran strikes stand as new polls roll in">

A week and a half into the U.S. and Israeli , the latest national public opinion poll indicates that more than half of American voters oppose U.S. military action.
But the survey from Quinnipiac University in Connecticut is the latest to indicate a wide partisan divide when it comes to support for the U.S. military operation, known as Epic Fury, which has resulted in the death of Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and the decimation of the country's military.
Fifty-three percent of voters questioned in the poll, which was conducted Friday through Sunday, said they oppose the U.S. military action against Iran, which was ordered by President , with 40% supporting the operation.
The Quinnipiac poll joins other recent surveys from NPR/PBS/Marist (44%–55%), CBS News (44%–56%), NBC News (41%–54%), Washington Post (39%–52%), CNN (41%–59%), and Reuters/Ipsos (27%–43%), in indicating minority support for U.S. military action.

Made with Flourish • 
But the latest , conducted Feb. 28–March 2, showed Americans split at 50% in their support or opposition to the fighting.
And three other national polls conducted over the past week and a half indicated majority or plurality support for the operation.
The surveys highlight the divergence between Democrats and Republicans over the fighting.

More than 8 in 10 Republicans surveyed by Fox News said they approved of the U.S. use of force against Iran, with 6 in 10 saying the president's actions on Iran are making the U.S. safer. 
But nearly 8 in 10 Democrats and 6 in 10 independents disapproved of the U.S. strikes and said things are less safe because of Trump's performance.

A week and a half into the U.S. and Israeli strikes against Iran, the latest national public opinion poll indicates that more than half of American voters oppose U.S. military action.  (Mark Schiefelbein/AP Photo)
The vast majority of Democrats surveyed by , as well as 6-in-10 independents, said they opposed the strikes on Iran, with 85% of Republicans supporting the military action.
A majority (55%) questioned by Quinnipiac said they didn't think Iran posed an imminent military threat to the U.S. before the attacks, with nearly four in ten disagreeing. 
Again, there was a partisan divide, with 83% of Democrats and 63% of independents saying Iran didn't pose an imminent threat, while nearly three quarters of Republicans said Tehran did pose an imminent threat.
But there was no partisan gap when it came to the possibility of sending U.S. ground troops into Iran.

Nearly three quarters of voters opposed sending U.S. ground troops into Iran, including 95% of Democrats, 75% of independents and 52% of Republicans.
Trump and Defense Secretary  have repeatedly not ruled out using ground troops in Iran.
Asked how long the fighting between the U.S. and Iran, which has retaliated with strikes against Israel and other nations in the volatile Middle East, will last, just 3% of Quinnipiac pollees said days, 18% offered weeks, 32% guessed months, 13% thought the attacks could last a year, and just over a quarter said more than a year.

Plumes of smoke rise following reported explosions in Tehran, Iran, on March 2, 2026. (Sohrab/Middle East Images/AFP via Getty Images)
"Very soon," Trump said at a news conference Monday, when asked when the strikes would end. "Look, everything they have is gone, including their leadership."
And the president described the operation as an "excursion."
Quinnipiac University Polling Analyst Peter Malloy noted that "perhaps compelled by memories of long wars, Americans see no early end to the enormous upheaval in the Middle East."
Trump recently dismissed the polling on Iran, telling the New York Post March 2: "I don't care about polling. I have to do the right thing. I have to do the right thing. This should have been done a long time ago."

Trump's overall approval rating stood at 37% in the Quinnipiac poll, with 57% giving the president a thumbs down on the job he's doing in the White House.
The president stood at 43% approval in the Fox News poll, and at 44% in the NBC News survey. An average of the latest national surveys that gauged the president's performance put Trump at 43% approval and 54% disapproval.
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-09" author=" Micheal Oren " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" MICHAEL OREN: Iran has waged war on America for 47 years — time to end it">

The reason a state goes to war — its casus belli — is an essential component of its campaign. Wars with a strong casus belli, such as the Civil War and World War II, are usually more popular and consistently more victorious than those with weak justifications — Vietnam, for example, and Iraq. The Trump administration's reasons for mounting Operation Epic Fury are being attacked by both the isolationist right and the progressive left in the United States. The , they claim, is unnecessary, unwarranted and even illegal. It serves Israel's interests more than America's, some say. Refuting those arguments, then, will be crucial to the operation's success.
Criticism of the war falls into three categories. The first assails the war's objectives. While admitting that the Iranian regime is heinous and ideally should be overthrown, detractors insist that the Islamic Republic never truly threatened America. By President Donald Trump's own admission, they recall, Iran's major nuclear facilities were obliterated last summer, while its ballistic missiles cannot yet reach Europe, much less the United States. By comparison, North Korea poses a much greater danger to the United States, yet no one is advocating bombing Pyongyang. And though administration officials have occasionally cited regime change as Epic Fury's preferred outcome, no regime has ever been brought down by air power alone.
Strategically, the war will deplete American arsenals, critics warn, and embolden Russia to redouble its aggression against Ukraine and enable China to attack Taiwan. The  has never clearly identified the war's objectives, opponents claim, or formulated a day-after plan. As such, the war could result in the emergence of an even more radical leadership in Iran. , meanwhile, will be destabilized.

Finally, on a legal level, by not seeking congressional approval for the war, the White House is  – so the critics charge. Some go further by maintaining that the attack on Iran is criminal. "A preventive strike, in which the powerful hit the weaker state," wrote The New York Times's David Sanger, "is considered illegal."
While seemingly compelling, none of these arguments can withstand serious scrutiny. No, Iran does not present an imminent threat to America's security, no more than Nazi Germany did to Britain's in the 1930s. But, as Churchill foresaw, if left unchecked, Germany's rapid military buildup would soon endanger Britain, as, in fact, it did. In this sense, North Korea represents the perfect cautionary example. Would the war critics prefer the United States wait until Iran had the bomb as well as the long-range missiles capable of reaching American targets? For that reason, precisely, nobody is recommending attacking Pyongyang. And while North Korea's organizing principle is regime survival and food to feed its starving population, Iran's is regional and ultimately global domination. The North Korean threat to America pales beside that of a nuclear-armed and ballistically-enabled Iran.

True, no regime has ever been brought down by air power, but a  by jets and sea-to-ground missiles can severely degrade the Iranian government and facilitate a successful popular uprising. Such an approach worked outstandingly well in Serbia, where, in 1999, American and allied aerial bombardments forced the withdrawal of Slobodan Milošević's forces from Kosovo and directly contributed to his government's collapse the following year.

Rather than emptying America's arsenals, the war is already speeding up America's production of a wide range of ordnance, especially anti-missile interceptors. And instead of being encouraged by the U.S. military's expenditure of munitions, Russia and China will likely be deterred by the display of American proficiency and resolve. After depriving China of its rich source of energy from Venezuela, Trump could also deny  of Iranian oil.

War, according to the military philosopher Carl Von Clausewitz, is always defined by uncertainty. The administration could surely have done a better job of clarifying its goals before launching its attack, but determining its exact outcome at this stage in the campaign is meaningless. Suffice it to say, as the White House already has, that the military action can help create the conditions under which the Iranian people can reclaim their liberty. Short of that, Operation Epic Fury aims to eliminate the gravest Iranian threats, present and future. And as for the destabilization of the Middle East — the most ludicrous of the critics' claims — Iran has been the primary source of violence in the region for almost half a century. Neutralizing that source will open game-changing opportunities for achieving security and peace from the Mediterranean to the Persian Gulf and beyond.

The debate over the right of any president to make war is hardly new and will not be settled in this conflict. Congress will, in any case,  that right. And irrespective of its constitutionality, the war in Iran is in no way illegal. According to international law expert Natasha Hausdorff, the relative strength and weakness of the warring parties are completely irrelevant. "Under real international law," she writes, "the Israeli-US strikes are lawful if they continue to comply with the laws of armed conflict on necessity, distinction, proportionality and precaution. The indicators are that now, as previously, these principles are being applied."

The arguments against the war are feeble at best and further weakened by their refusal to acknowledge the far stronger case for supporting it. This begins with the irrefutable fact that the Islamic Republic started this war 47 years ago by occupying the  and holding 52 Americans hostage for hundreds of days. Iran started the war by torturing and executing Americans in Lebanon in the 1980s, by blowing up the Marine barracks and the U.S. embassy in Beirut, and killing American soldiers during the Iraq war. The ayatollahs started the war when their terrorist proxies launched hundreds of drone and rocket attacks against U.S. bases and ships throughout the region. Throughout, Iranian drug merchants, in league with South American cartels, have flooded the United States with deadly narcotics. Iranian assassins have targeted the Saudi and Israeli ambassadors in Washington, senior American officials, and, purportedly, the president.
The Iranian regime started this war by vowing openly and ardently each day since coming to power to destroy the United States and by assiduously developing the weapons to do so. Though Israel most certainly has an interest in defending itself from Iranian attacks, that interest is consonant with, not superior to, America's, which is independent and critical. In what logical universe, a clearly-thinking person might well ask, does the United States not have a clear-cut casus belli against Iran?
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-10-31" author=" Efrat Lachter " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title="Israel Ex-Mossad chief behind Iran nuclear warehouse raid says Iran's atomic sites 'obliterated,' credits Trump ">

EXCLUSIVE: The former director of Mossad, Yossi Cohen, confirmed that the joint operation coordinated by the United States and Israel "obliterated", halting its uranium enrichment, and warned that Israel "can come again" if Tehran resumes its nuclear program.
Speaking on the sidelines of the Shurat HaDin conference at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in New York City this week, Cohen, who led Israel's intelligence agency until 2021, described the operation as a turning point for Israel's security and the region's diplomatic future.
"For many years, everyone knew that  was our premier client — and my personal client," he said, recalling his years as a Mossad operative. "That was the nation and the station in our workflow because of the threat Iran posed to Israel."

Former Mossad Director Yossi Cohen and Shurat HaDin President Nitsana Darshan-Leitner attend an event on Oct. 28, 2025. (Ohad Kab)
"Since June 2025, Iran has been in a different position," he said. "I can absolutely accept the president's description that Iran's nuclear sites were obliterated. I know for sure that Iran doesn't enrich uranium these days, which is a great achievement. And more than that, Iran knows two things: first, that we can, and we did — with the U.S., in beautiful cooperation and coordination. And second, something even more important — we can come again."
Cohen praised the Trump administration for its discreet coordination with Israel, the Mossad and the IDF that enabled the joint strike.

Map of US strikes on Iran. (Fox News)
"We destroyed their air-defense systems, their Revolutionary Guard sites, we chased their filthy terrorists in their own bedrooms and beds inside Tehran and other cities," he said. "We destroyed the  that were threatening the State of Israel up to the level of an existential threat — and they know that we've done a beautiful job there."
The day Israel stole Iran's nuclear archive
In his newly released book, The Sword of Freedom, Cohen — who worked directly with three U.S. presidents — recalls how he warned President Barack Obama in 2015 that the Iran nuclear deal was dangerous.
"I told him it was risky," Cohen writes. "He said, 'Yossi, you are so wrong.'"
That conversation, he says, was a scene later repeated with President . "When Trump took office in 2016, I told him the deal was 'so wrong' in principle and practice. He replied, 'You're so right. It's the worst deal ever.'"

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu presents material on Iranian nuclear weapons development during a press conference in Tel Aviv, April 2018. (Sebastian Scheiner/AP)
"We love it when the weather is extreme — when everyone else stays indoors."
A key turning point, Cohen said, was the 2018 Mossad operation to steal Iran's nuclear archive — a mission that ultimately influenced the U.S. decision to withdraw from the deal.
On Jan. 31, 2018, Cohen watched a live video feed showing a 25-member Mossad squad infiltrating Tehran on a cold, snowy night. "In the Mossad, we love it when the weather is extreme — when everyone else stays indoors," he said with a smile.
That night, agents stole 55,000 pages of classified documents and 183 compact discs, which they smuggled back to Israel — "not by UPS," Cohen joked. The materials revealed that while Iran was negotiating with the U.S. and world powers, it was secretly continuing its work.
Hostage deal and the "day after" in Gaza
Cohen also spoke about the recent Trump administration brokered hostage deal.
"I can't thank them enough, together with our allies in the Middle East," he said. "All living hostages are free, and I hope to receive the remaining bodies shortly, as Hamas has committed."

People wave Israeli and American flags in Hostages Square during a rally supporting hostages and missing families following the Israel-Hamas peace deal. (Dana Reany/Hostages and Missing Families Forum)
He expressed optimism that the end of the war in Gaza could mark the beginning of a new diplomatic era.
"From now on, we will see a better Middle East when this war is practically over," he said. "Maybe the reconstruction of our relationships in the region will start to resume."
"More peace treaties will come"
Cohen predicted that renewed normalization efforts would extend beyond , which he helped establish during his tenure as Mossad chief.
"Not only will the Saudis be in line," he said. "I know there are some rumors about Indonesia, I cherish that, of course, and I'm expecting other countries to come and sign peace treaties with the State of Israel."
He noted that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is expected to visit Washington soon, calling it "an important visit not only for him, but for us in the region."

Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is pictured sitting next to a senior military official in Iran. (Getty Images)
"In the spirit of the American president right now and his beautiful team — Steve Witkoff, Jared Kushner, Marco Rubio and others," he added, "I'm expecting to see more peace treaties in the future."
The Iranian regime and the road ahead
At the Shurat HaDin conference, Cohen also said he believes the overthrow of the Iranian regime is possible, though it may take years.
"The Iranian people suffer under a cruel regime — anyone who dares to protest is hanged or shot," he said. "But I believe the time has come, and if the world supports it, it will happen."
Shurat HaDin President Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, who hosted the event, warned of the ongoing political and legal threats facing Israel.
"The war is not yet over," she said. "Political threats to establish a Palestinian state alongside Israel, and the aggressiveness of , are driving an unprecedented rise in anti-Israel sentiment and antisemitism. We must unite all forces working on this issue to fight back — on the battlefield, in the courts, and in the arena of global public opinion."
Could Cohen one day replace Netanyahu as prime minister?

A file picture taken at the Israeli foreign ministry on October 15, 2015, shows Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu (L) sitting next to Yossi Cohen, who is currently the head of Israel's National Security Council, and who was named as the 12th head of the Mossad intelligence agency by Netanyahu on Dec. 7, 2015. (GALI TIBBON/AFP via Getty Images)
In the Fox News Digital interview, Cohen also addressed speculation about his political ambitions, following Prime Minister  2018 hint that he could one day be his successor.
"I'm not going into politics right now," he said. "There's a long, long way to go before I enter politics. I think the Israeli situation today is relatively stable, and nobody is going anywhere. Next year we'll have elections for sure, and I don't think I'll join."
However, he did not rule out future involvement in Israel's foreign affairs.

"I'd love to do whatever it takes to support Israel's relationships internationally," he said. "We need better agreements, good ones, with as many countries as we can."
<\doc>
<doc date="2026-03-11" author="Madison Colombo " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iranian-born scholar warns regime was an 'aggressively patient threat waiting to pounce' on America ">

Anti-war activists gathered in cities across the U.S. to condemn military strikes against the Iranian regime. One Iranian scholar, however, says the protesters have it wrong and is warning Americans not to fall for what she calls a dangerous narrative.
The U.S. and Israel launched  after nuclear negotiations with Tehran failed, which President Donald Trump cited as justification for the military campaign. While critics described the mission as a "war of choice," Iranian-American scholar Nazee Moinian argued the strikes constituted an act of self-defense.
"I want the American people to understand that if it was not an imminent threat, it was a solidly, aggressively patient threat waiting to pounce at any moment to do great damage to American interests," Moinian said of Iran on  podcast.
In the hours after the first strikes on Iran, demonstrations were held across the country in places like Times Square and outside the White House to 

A demonstrator shouts anti-war slogans while participating in a protest near the White House in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 28. Protesters, some carrying Iranian and American flags, gathered to voice opposition to a joint U.S.-Israeli military operation targeting Iran's leadership. (Getty Images)
Moinian, an associate fellow at the Middle East Institute who fled Iran following the 1979 Islamic Revolution, pushed back against media outlets portraying the conflict as "another endless war."
"They framed that as a war of choice. It is a war choice, but whose choice? It's not our choice. Iran was given so many exit ramps," Moinian told Fox News Radio's Tonya J. Powers on Friday.
She pointed to  in 1999, 2009 and 2022, during which Iranian authorities used force to suppress demonstrators.

"They took to the street in 1999. It was a student riot. They were shot in [the] thousands. And some of the bodies never were recovered," Moinian said.
"If they were recovered, the Islamic regime would ask the parents of the students for the cost of the bullets that they killed their children with. That's how heinous and brutal that regime was in 1999," she added.
Moinian warned that the  isn't just overseas. With "porous" borders and the reach of cyberspace, she said the regime's ideology already stretches into America.
"We may not have liked to go to war with them, but they were very willing and gradually very capable to do great damage to us," she said, adding, "This is a  to safeguard the American people."

Protesters carry signs as they march along Michigan Avenue during the "Hands Off Iran and Lebanon" demonstration in Chicago on March 7, 2026. (Jacek Boczarski/Anadolu via Getty Images)

During the strikes, Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah , was killed, along with several other key leaders. Iranian officials named his son, , as the next supreme leader.
Trump signaled disappointment with Mojtaba Khamenei's appointment,  chief foreign correspondent Trey Yingst, "I don't believe he can live in peace."
<\doc>

<doc date="2022-05-16" author="Ben Evansky " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iran protests continue into second week as State Department tweets message of support for protesters ">

Protests in  continued Monday as more Iranians took the streets to show their disdain for the regime in Tehran. Over the weekend reports said up to five people were killed following a crackdown by authorities. A semi-official government news agency put the number of dead from the protests at one according to the Associated Press. 

The protests began last week when the government slashed food subsidies on eggs, milk, chicken, and cooking oil leading to price rises of some 300%.  Since then,  have spread to many areas of the country and according to observers have taken on a much more anti-government current. 

Iran protests on video via The Foreign Desk (Courtesy of The Foreign Desk)
Protesters, showing no fear of retribution by the state security services have been heard shouting, "Death to ! Death to Raisi!" referring to Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi, who has promised to create jobs, lift sanctions, and rescue the economy.
Taking to Twitter on Sunday,  spokesman Ned Price tweeted out a message to the protesters
His tweet stated: "Brave Iranian protestors are standing up for their rights. The Iranian people have a right to hold their government accountable. We support their rights to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression online and offline – without fear of violence and reprisal." 
Before Price's tweet was released, some users with the hashtag #IranProtests2022 had complained that the Farsi language Twitter account for the State department was promoting an . 

Behnam Ben Taleblu, a senior fellow at The Foundation for Defense of Democracies (FDD) told Fox News Digital that "The million-dollar question for the Biden administration is: does it ever plan to act on its professed support for Iranian protestors?" 
He noted that there were several ways to do that including the designation of officials who support, or are engaged, in the crackdowns, "Or at the very least, cutting off nuclear talks and announcing an end to its quest to resurrect a deal that empowers the worst of the worst at the expense of the Iranian people."
 reported that in addition to the five deaths there were dozens of arrests. Citing Iranians who were protesting the message was clear.
One woman from Tehran and who spoke on the condition of anonymity to the Foreign Desk said, "People have become more courageous than ever, and maybe it's because they've hit absolute rock bottom. They feel they have nothing to lose."

It also quoted Jamshad from Shiraz who called on the U.S. to do more. "We need help. The U.S. and central media sources know their power. They are the ones who must help us." Jamshad, who withheld his last name due to security reasons, continued, "The West is only focused on the Iran deal. When it comes to Iran, they forget about us. They forget about human rights," he said.
Also weighing in on the protests Monday was former U.S. Secretary of State Michael Pompeo, who was on a visit to an Iranian opposition group in Albania. 
Pompeo was secretary of state under President Trump when the U.S. left the . He was also instrumental in placing the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO.) In March Fox News reported that the Biden administration was considering a move to take the IRGC off the terror list as part of the ongoing negotiations to rejoin the nuclear deal.

During his speech to the MEK, an Iranian opposition group, Pompeo said that Iranian president Ebrahim Raisi was failing the people of Iran.
"You should know Raisi has already failed. He has failed to crush the uprisings in Iran or break the noble spirit of decency within the Iranian people and the resistance is part of making that happen."
During his visit to the organization's headquarters known as Ashraf 3, Pompeo met with its leader  where the two discussed the situation in Iran. 
Fox News' Adam Shaw, Bradford Betz, and The Associated Press contributed to this article.
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-07" author="Efrat Lachter " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iran's ideological state: faith, fear and favors fuel its vast propaganda and patronage network ">

When Benny Sabti was a child , he remembers receiving an unusual prize at school. "For being an excellent student, I received a Persian translation of Mein Kampf by Adolf Hitler," Sabti told Fox News Digital. "They translated Hitler's book into Persian and distributed it to students."
The experience stayed with him. Looking back, Sabti, now an Iran expert at the Institute for National Security Studies (INSS) in Israel, says it reflected a broader effort by Iran's ruling clerical establishment to shape how young Iranians viewed politics, religion and the world around them.
Schools, mosques, workplaces and media all became part of an ideological ecosystem designed to reinforce loyalty to the regime. But critics of Iran's leadership say religion itself was often not the ultimate goal.

"Faith for them is their tool," Banafsheh Zand, an Iranian-American journalist and editor of the Iran So Far Away Substack, told Fox News Digital. "It's not the end all to be all. It's a tool that they can hide behind so that they can carry out all their criminalities."

Primary school girls in traditional headscarves sit in a classroom, Tehran, Iran, Oct. 1, 1997.  (Kaveh Kazemi/Getty Images)
Religion and power
The Islamic Republic was founded on the doctrine of velayat-e faqih, or "guardianship of the Islamic jurist," which places ultimate political and religious authority in the hands of the country's supreme leader.
But Zand argues that in practice the system functions less as a purely religious project and more as a mechanism of political control. "It's more like a mafia," she said. "They use faith in order to keep people down."
According to Zand, ideology is reinforced through a mix of financial incentives and intimidation. "They tried by incentive and money and buying people," she said.
Programs tied to the Basij, a militia affiliated with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), have often provided benefits such as jobs, housing and education to families aligned with the regime.
"If you are poor and you join the Basij, they give you benefits," Zand said. "But you have to go along with whatever it is that they offer you."
Ideology embedded in daily life
Sabti says the Islamic Republic  designed to reinforce ideology in everyday life. "In banks, offices, public spaces and even in the bazaars, regime representatives walk between shops telling people it is time to pray and checking who is not attending," Sabti said.
Mosques themselves are closely integrated into the political system. Friday prayer leaders often deliver sermons aligned with government messaging.
"There are 16 propaganda bodies in Iran," Sabti said, describing a network of state institutions responsible for spreading the regime's interpretation of Islam and the ideals of the Islamic Revolution.
Some institutions also focus on exporting that ideology abroad. "There is a university dedicated to ," he said. "They bring people from Africa and South America to Iran, convert them to Shiism and send them back to export the Shiite Islamic revolution."

A Persian-language edition of Adolf Hitler's Mein Kampf.
Indoctrination in schools
Schools play a central role in the regime's ideological system.
"Schools are heavily indoctrinated," Sabti said. "In civil studies books, Islam was promoted as superior to all other ideologies."
 appears across the curriculum. "You cannot separate any school subject from Islam," Sabti said. "Not history, not geography. Everything is mixed with ideology. The only thing missing was adding it to mathematics."
For Sabti, the Mein Kampf episode symbolized the ideological environment students were exposed to. The message, he said, reinforced hostility toward perceived enemies and embedded a political worldview from an early age.
Ideology and hypocrisy
Sabti says the credibility of the system is also undermined by the behavior of Iran's own elites. "You can see it in the second generation," he said. " the elites live in palaces in Iran and in other countries. It is hypocrisy."
Zand says ideology has always been reinforced by intimidation. "They make examples out of people in the most vicious possible way," she said. "It's fear and manipulation."
According to Zand, that  shapes daily life for many Iranians. "Everybody is afraid of the police," she said. "Everybody is afraid of their neighbors."

School children sit together in a classroom while mask-clad and distanced apart from each other, with Iranian national flags on the desk of each, on the first day of school's re-opening, at Nojavanan school in the capital Tehran on Sept. 5, 2020.  (Photo by Atta Kenare / AFP / Getty)
An ideology losing its grip
Despite the regime's extensive ideological machinery, Sabti believes many Iranians never fully accepted the worldview the government tried to impose.
"Over the years, the indoctrination has stopped working," he said. "Most of the public does not truly believe it."
Still, the Islamic Republic remains in power. "The regime maintains control through ," Sabti said.
Zand agrees the system never fully reshaped Iranian society. Many people, she said, complied outwardly simply to avoid punishment.

Iranian school girls wearing angel wings hold flags and portraits of Iran's supreme leaders, past and present, as officials and security forces mark the 37th anniversary of the day in 1979 that the father of Iran's Islamic revolution, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, returned from exile in France, at the shrine built to house his remains on Feb. 1, 2016 south of Tehran, Iran.  (Scott Peterson/Getty Images)
"They won't have a problem to transfer as long as they realize that the new Iran has no room for the violence and the horrifying characteristics of the Islamist regime," Zand told Fox News Digital.
She said that beneath the surface, Iran's cultural identity remained intact even after decades of pressure from the state.
<\doc>
<doc date="2026-03-04" author="Ashley Carnahan " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iran postpones Tehran farewell ceremony for Khamenei where large crowds were expected to gather ">

Iran postponed a planned farewell ceremony in Tehran for its late supreme leader, Ayatollah , who was killed Saturday in U.S.-Israeli strikes as part of Operation Epic Fury.
The three-day program was scheduled to begin Wednesday at 10 p.m. local time at Imam Khomeini Prayer Hall, where large crowds were expected to gather to pay their respects, according to Tasnim, a semi-official Iranian news agency. 
Hojjatoleslam Seyed Mohsen Mahmoudi, head of the  Province, said the postponement followed widespread requests to participate and the need to provide adequate infrastructure and facilities to accommodate attendees.
"It was decided to hold the ceremony at a more appropriate time," he explained.

Iranian worshipers pray under a giant portrait of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at a prayer hall in Imam Khomeini Mosque in Tehran, Dec. 9, 2022. (Morteza Nikoubazl/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
No additional reason for the postponement was given, and it was not immediately clear when the ceremony would be rescheduled.
 Israel Katz warned Iranian leadership in a post on X that any successor who tries to "destroy Israel, to threaten the United States and the free world and the countries of the region, and to suppress the Iranian people" will be an "unequivocal target for elimination."
"It does not matter what his name is or the place where he hides," Katz said.

Portraits of Iran's 1979 Islamic Revolution leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, right, and Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei are carried by scouts in Beirut, Lebanon, on Nov. 24, 2025. (Scott Peterson/Getty Images)
The funeral of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the founder of the Islamic Republic of Iran, drew massive crowds in the country's capital on June 11, 1989, with an estimated 10.2 million people in attendance, roughly one-sixth of the nation's population at the time. 
According to , it drew the largest percentage of a population ever recorded at a funeral.

A huge crowd gathers around the container covering Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's tomb at Behesht Zahra cemetery in Tehran on June 7, 1989. (Christophe Simon And Pascal George/AFP via Getty Images)

Khamenei's death triggers  overseen by Iran's Assembly of Experts, the clerical body responsible for appointing the supreme leader.
"The IRGC is a key stakeholder in this process, and will heavily influence its outcome," Jason Brodsky, policy director at United Against Nuclear Iran, told Fox News Digital.
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-03-01" author="Charles Creitz " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" From hostage crisis to assassination plots: Iran's near half-century war on Americans">

After radical students overthrew Iran's shah in 1979 and took hostages in the U.S. embassy, the Middle Eastern nation became a strident and blood-soaked adversary of what its new Islamic fundamentalist dictatorship has long called the "Great Satan."
Since then, Tehran has sponsored terrorism around the globe, including targeting the U.S. in multiple, high-profile instances. Former Reagan Justice Department chief of staff  said Sunday there are at least 44 examples of Iran targeting Americans either directly or indirectly.
"The Iranian-Nazi regime… [has] murdered more than 1,000 Americans [and] relentlessly pursued nuclear weapons to use against us — they are genocidal warmongers," said Levin, an author, attorney and Fox News Channel host.

The stage for Iran's transformation from ally to enemy of the U.S. was set in the 1960s, when Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi began clashing with influential Islamic cleric Ruhollah Khomeini. The monarch infuriated the theocrat by liberalizing the national constitution to allow faiths other than Islam to be sworn into office on holy books of their choice.
Khomeini's rhetoric from France, where he was exiled, intensified during the period known as the White Revolution, including misogynistic and xenophobic sermons and demands that Pahlavi be ousted.

Early aggression toward the US
With Pahlavi as a U.S.-aligned leader, this marked an early instance of antagonism by proxy. As protests engineered by broke out in fall 1978, the shah declared martial law, and military police fired on a massive crowd of protesters.
Pahlavi and Empress Farah Pahlavi soon fled on a "vacation" to Egypt but never returned. By February 1979, Khomeini returned to Tehran with significant sectarian support.
Failed Carter strategy develops into hostage crisis

National security advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski (Reuters)
Carter national security advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski — the father of "Morning Joe" host Mika Brzezinski — coined the term "arc of crisis" and advanced an ultimately failed "Green Belt" strategy that supported an arc of largely unstable but fundamentalist regimes across the Middle East that were also viewed as oppositional to the Soviet Union.
Brzezinski's envisioned buffer strategy soon collapsed when Khomeini proved to be just as anti-American as anti-Soviet.
In October 1979, after months of debate over whether to admit him to the U.S. amid the new turmoil in Iran, President Jimmy Carter relented and permitted the cancer-stricken shah to seek medical care in New York.

A map of Western strikes against Iran (Fox News)

That November, the group "Muslim Student Followers of the Imam's Line" stormed the U.S. embassy, beginning 444 days of captivity for 52 American hostages.
The U.S. severed diplomatic ties the following April, and one rescue mission failed and left several U.S. service members dead. The shah died that summer in , leaving Khomeini in full control of the government.
In what was seen as the final offense to Carter, Iran suddenly released the hostages minutes into President Ronald Reagan's administration on Jan. 20, 1981.

President Jimmy Carter and Shah Mohammed Pahlavi dine in Iran. (Bettmann/Getty Images)
Lebanon hostage crisis
On July 5, 1982, the years-long saga known as the Lebanon hostage crisis began with the systematic abductions of foreigners, including Americans, by Hezbollah and Iranian proxies in the Mideast country, according to United Against a Nuclear Iran.
That group, founded by former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and former Ambassador Mark Wallace, maintains a comprehensive history of Iranian aggression on its website and is a nonpartisan policy organization formed to combat the threats posed by the Islamic Republic.
During the Lebanon hostage crisis, several victims spent years imprisoned by Hezbollah, where they were forced to undergo psychological and medical torture, including CIA Beirut Station Chief William Buckley, who was not related to  of the same name. 
Buckley was tortured for months by Dr. Aziz al-Abub, a Lebanese Hezbollah psychiatrist and medical expert who reportedly forced him to take phenothiazines and experimented on him to induce interrogation and make an example of him to the West.

US Naval asset map. (Fox News)
Buckley reportedly died in custody amid these experiments on June 3, 1985.
The CIA later memorialized him on its wall in Langley, Virginia, and Obama-era Director John Brennan said in a 2014 statement that "we remember Bill not for the manner in which he died but for the legacy he left behind. From his time as an Army lieutenant colonel to his tenure with the Agency, Bill inspired those around him to do great things despite often dangerous conditions."
The agency later caught up with the figurehead of the Hezbollah-linked Islamic Jihad terrorist group — carrying out what  described as a rare contemporary CIA assassination nearly 25 years later.

Imad Mughniyeh's group had announced Buckley's execution in October 1985, but the actual date was determined later, with allegations that he died not from execution but from the side effects of the medical torture he endured. Former hostage David Jacobsen told the institute that Buckley was often sick and delirious in his cell and ultimately died "drowning in his own lung fluids" after a bout of torture.
David Dodge, then-president of the American University in Beirut, was also kidnapped for about a year, and U.S. journalist Terry Anderson was held in captivity for more than six years.
Reagan-era bombings and murders of American servicemembers

Iran bombed the Beirut U.S. Embassy in 1983. (Stringer/Reuters)
On April 18, 1983, an Iran-backed group seen as the predecessor to today's Lebanese  in Beirut, killing 63 people, including 17 Americans.
That October, a suicide truck bomb linked to Iran hit a U.S. Marine barracks in Lebanon, killing 241 service members, in what remains the deadliest single day for the Corps since Iwo Jima.
According to the MEMRI translation of Khomeini's representative to Lebanon, Sayyed Issa Tabatabai's interview with the IRNA: "I quickly went to Lebanon and provided what was needed in order to [carry out] martyrdom operations in the place where the Americans and Israelis were." 
He added, "The efforts to establish [Hezbollah] started in [Lebanon's] Baalbek area, where members of [Iran's] Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) arrived. I had no part in establishing the [political] party [Hezbollah], but God made it possible for me to continue the military activity with the group that had cooperated with us prior to the [Islamic] Revolution's victory."
The MEMRI report continued, "It is noteworthy that the part of the interview in which Tabatabai acknowledged receiving Khomeini's fatwa ordering attacks on American and Israeli targets in Lebanon was removed by IRNA from its website shortly after publication. This is apparently because no official representative of Khomeini, the father of the Islamic Republic, or of Khamenei, Iran's Supreme Leader, had ever said that Iran had any involvement in ordering, planning and carrying out the massive bombings in Lebanon against U.S."
In 1985, Iran-backed Hezbollah hijacked Trans World Airlines (TWA) Flight 847 as it departed Athens. The hijackers collected IDs from the passengers and singled out U.S. Navy Seabee Robert Stethem of Waldorf, Maryland, mistaking him for a Marine and blaming him for involvement in the Lebanese civil war.
The hijackers tortured Stethem as they flew to Beirut before shooting him dead, dumping him on the tarmac, and shooting him again.
Operation Praying Mantis
In 1988, the USS Samuel B. Roberts struck an Iranian mine in the Persian Gulf and nearly sank. The Roberts had been escorting Kuwaiti oil tankers as a protective measure.
After the mines were matched to the Iranian ship Ajr, which had been captured by the Americans earlier that year, President Ronald Reagan sprang into retaliatory action.
Reagan's operation destroyed two oil platforms reportedly used as Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) surveillance structures, leading Iran to begin attacking nonmilitary targets.
The mission also claimed two other Iranian ships and was considered the largest naval surface engagement since World War II.
Two Americans died in a helicopter crash during the operation, while dozens of Iranian officers were killed.
Clinton-Bush-Obama era; 9/11

Iranian worshippers hold up their hands as signs of unity with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, during a rally to condemn Israel's attacks on Iran, in downtown Tehran, on June 20, 2025. (Morteza Nikoubazl/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
The FBI linked a 1996 attack on an American military housing complex in Saudi Arabia to another Iranian-backed terrorist group.
Hezbollah al-Hejaz was blamed for the Khobar Towers bombing in June of that year, which killed 19 U.S. service members.
In the aftermath of al Qaeda's 2000 attack on the USS Cole destroyer in Aden, Yemen, American courts found Iran indirectly liable in that it provided support for the terrorists – in part by letting them be trained in Tehran-linked Hezbollah bases in Lebanon.
In 2015, FISA Judge Rudolph Contreras found Iran and Sudan liable, and during the Biden administration. Sudan agreed to settle claims of murdered sailors' families.
After 9/11, when the U.S. went to war in Iraq, Iran and its proxies were suspected of causing a large portion of American casualties by supplying land mines to the Iraqi Shia insurgents. In 2019, the Department of Defense officially raised its estimate to more than 600 troop casualties directly tied to Iran or its proxies, meaning one in six Iraq War losses were caused by Tehran.
Navy Cmdr. Sean Robertson  at the time that "these [American] casualties were the result of explosively formed penetrators (EFPs), other improvised explosive devices (IEDs), improvised rocket-assisted munitions (IRAMs), rockets, mortars, rocket-propelled grenades (RPGs), small arms, sniper fire, and other attacks in Iraq."
During his first term in the White House, President Donald Trump ordered a strike on the IRGC, killing its legendary commander, Qassem Soleimani.

While Iran was not directly implicated as having specific knowledge of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in New York, Pennsylvania and Virginia, it was found to be complicit in facilitating the planned terrorism.
The report, led by former New Jersey Republican Gov. Tom Kean Sr., found a "persistence of contacts" between Iranian officials and.
Chapter 7 of the report found that Iran at least knew that the terrorists being trained by Hezbollah were going to act against the U.S. and/or Israel. The findings thereby blew apart critics' claims that the Sunni terror group could not get along with its religious archenemy, the Shia who ran Iran.
Tehran border patrol officials also did not stamp passports of al Qaeda operatives traveling around the region, as the marking would have been flagged upon application for any U.S. visa.

The FBI said it received this image of Robert Levinson in April 2011, four years after his disappearance. (FBI)
, a retired FBI agent and private investigator, . Levinson was held hostage and was declared dead in 2020, when he was said to have died in Iranian custody. 
Levinson's family received proof-of-life in 2010 and 2011 through a minute-long video and several photos showing Levinson in a haggard condition pleading for help.
In 2020, the Trump administration identified Mohammad Baseri and Ahmad Khazai – two Iranian intel officers accused of  years prior – leading then-FBI Director Christopher Wray to announce in a statement that Iran pledged to assist in Levinson's return but never did, 

Mohammad Baseri, left, and Ahmad Khazai. The FBI is seeking more information regarding both Iranian intelligence officers, who they allege played a role in the disappearance of American Robert Levinson. (FBI)
"The truth is that Iranian intelligence officers — with the approval of senior Iranian officials — were involved in Bob's abduction and detention. We will never waver from our commitment to find out more about Bob's long captivity, to give the Levinson family the answers they deserve, and to finally bring Bob home."
In 2025, the State Department sanctioned three Iranian intelligence service entities, citing a Biden-era executive order: "Bolstering Efforts To Bring Hostages and Wrongfully Detained United States Nationals Home," and incorporating then-New Jersey Sen. Robert Menendez' "Robert Levinson Hostage Recovery and Hostagetaking Accountability Act."
In a statement to Fox News Digital, the Levinson family reacted to Saturday's mission that took out the Ayatollah and crippled the Iranian regime:
"For nearly 19 years, Iran has lied, obstructed, and refused to answer for the kidnapping, detention, and death of our father, Robert Levinson. He was taken by Iranian officials in 2007, held for years without basic human rights, denied contact with his family, and never returned home.

Ayatollah Ali Khamenei led the regime responsible for these crimes. His death does not erase what Iran did to our father, and it does not end our fight for accountability. But it is a significant moment for our family and for every family that has suffered at the hands of this regime's hostage-taking and wrongful detention.

We are grateful to President Trump and Secretary Rubio for using the power of the United States to confront Iran and to hold it accountable, including by recognizing and addressing Iran's long-standing practice of wrongful detention.

At the same time, our hearts are with the Iranian people as they continue their struggle for freedom, dignity, and a future free from the repression of this regime.

Now Iran must do what it has refused to do for nearly two decades: provide full accountability for what happened to our father, return his remains to our family, and disclose the truth about his kidnapping, imprisonment, and death.

Our family will not stop demanding the truth. And we will not stop demanding justice," the family concluded.
In 2016, hackers linked to the IRGC were indicted by the Justice Department – including one 34-year-old Iranian national who allegedly gained access to the controls of a major dam in Rye Brook, New York, near the confluence of Interstate 287 and the New England Thruway.

In 2011, the U.S. also foiled an IRGC plot targeting the homeland, in which a District of Columbia restaurant was to be bombed to kill Saudi Ambassador to the U.S. Adel al-Jubeir.
Iranian-born U.S. citizen Manssoor Arbabsiar and Quds Force member Gholam Shakuri were charged in the incident. Arbabsiar was arrested at New York's JFK Airport and Shakuri remains at large.
A confidential federal source met with Arbabsiar in Mexico that July, where the suspect agreed to pay $100,000 toward a $1.5 million bounty placed on al-Jubeir, according to the Justice Department.
 said at the time that the arrests depicted the U.S. "increased ability… to bring together the intelligence and law enforcement resources necessary to better identify and disrupt those threats, regardless of their origin."
Biden era
By 2020, Iran was blamed for several recent attacks on commercial oil tankers, and after Trump ordered the killing of Soleimani, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei dispatched ballistic missiles at Al-Asad Air Base in Iraq.
Several dozen U.S. troops were wounded.
After Hamas militants massacred Israelis on Oct. 7, 2023, Iran-backed Hamas and Hezbollah launched about 180 attacks on Western forces in the region, including a drone strike on a base in Jordan that killed three Americans.
Trump era: Assassination plot on the president

Bombing occurs in Tehran, Iran on Feb. 28, 2026. (Fatemeh Bahrami/Getty Images)
After an Afghan-born Iranian proxy and two American men were charged with allegedly trying to hunt down and assassinate an Iranian-born American critic of the ayatollah's regime, the Justice Department disclosed that Trump was also the subject of a similar assassination plot.
Farhad Shakeri, who had spent 14 years in a New York state prison for robbery and made U.S. contacts to create a "network of criminal associates" to "supply the IRGC with operatives" domestically, was allegedly seeking to kill  — a journalist who often appears on Fox News Channel.
Shakeri remained at large, likely in Iran, as of 2024, but his American counterparts were put on trial in Brooklyn.
Jonathon Loadholt of Staten Island and Carlisle Rivera of Brooklyn allegedly "were recruited as part of that network to silence and kill, on U.S. soil, an American journalist who has been a prominent critic of the regime," according to then-Attorney General Merrick Garland.
"We will not stand for the Iranian regime's attempts to endanger the American people and America's national security," Garland said, as the criminal complaint suggested Shakeri and Rivera first met while serving time.
The two men stalked Alinejad and were also accused of rotating plates on Loadholt's car to avoid suspicion, while then-FBI Director Christopher Wray mentioned Trump as another target of an Iranian plot in a related statement on the Alinejad case.
Shakeri reportedly spoke to the FBI voluntarily from Iran, where he disclosed efforts to assassinate Trump, according to The New York Times.
Shakeri said he was told to create a plan to kill Trump after an IRGC meeting that October and that, if he could not, the assumption from the militia was that Trump would lose to Kamala Harris and be "easier to assassinate" while out of office.

"Thanks to the hard work of the FBI, their deadly schemes were disrupted. We're committed to using the full resources of the FBI to protect our citizens from Iran or any other adversary who targets Americans," Wray said in a statement at the time.
Trump has since warned Iran repeatedly to back down, with  overseeing 2025 airstrikes on nuclear facilities, and the administration ultimately taking what it described as long-term military action to force regime change.
"Our objective is to defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime," Trump said Saturday.
Fox News Digital's Benjamin Weinthal and Beth Bailey contributed to this report.
<\doc>

<doc date="2024-04-23" author="Christopher Lopez" newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Jerusalem warns 'regional war' with Iran is 'inevitable': 'Iran is the Nazi Germany of the 1930s' ">

Outgoing Deputy Mayor of Jerusalem Fleur Hassan-Nahoum joined "" to discuss escalating tensions in the Middle East following a direct attack by Iran and subsequent retaliatory strikes by Israel.
"For the first time ever, Iran has shown their hand," Hassan-Nahoum explained Sunday, noting Iran's usual strategy of engaging in proxy warfare through forces like Hamas and Hezbollah.
Earlier this month, the Pentagon reported Iran "launched over 300 air threats" towards Israel, involving hundreds of drones, ballistic missiles and cruise missiles launched from Iran, Iraq, Syria and Yemen. "99% of those were knocked down," Pentagon press secretary Maj. Gen. Pat Ryder added.

This satellite image from Planet Labs PBC shows Iran's nuclear site in Isfahan, Iran, April 4, 2024. ((Planet Labs PBC via AP))
The deputy mayor pointed to international defense collaborations, including support from the United States and European allies, in helping mitigate the impact of Iran's attacks. "We're very grateful to the United States for helping us fend off that very brutal attack," she said.
Hassan-Nahoum then raised concerns about the broader implications of Iran's aggression, likening the current environment to the pre-World War II era and criticizing what she perceives as .

"I actually think that Iran is the Nazi Germany of the 1930s, and I think that the world eventually is going to have to deal with Iran. Enough with this Chamberlain attitude of appeasing them. They will not be appeased. These are fundamentalist jihadi ideologues who want to push the wall back 500 years. So, sooner or later, they threaten the entire free world," she said. 

"And so at the moment, maybe it's not the time for a regional war, because that may have escalated to that, but I think that eventually we're going to get there. Whether the administration thinks we're going to get there or not, it's inevitable."

Iranian pro-government supporters hold a giant Palestine flag at Palestine Square in Tehran, on April 14, 2024, in a celebration of the early morning Iran's IRGC attack on Israel. (Photo by Hossein Beris / Middle East Images / Middle East Images via AFP)
The House of Representatives last week showed overwhelming bipartisan support for a $26 billion foreign aid bill providing funding for Israel and humanitarian aid to Gaza.
Hassan-Nahoum additionally called for a firmer international stance . 
"When people keep telling you they want to kill you, you should believe them. And for years already, what Iran really wants to do is change the world order, but start with the Middle East," she asserted.

"They want a very dark jihadi fundamentalism, and this is a threat to the entire world," she added. "If you get rid of the Iranian regime, you get rid of the majority of the terrorism in the world. Just think about that for a second. So I don't see how, eventually, we don't have to deal with it. The question is, who's going to be brave?"
<\doc>

<doc date="2026-04-09" author="Efrat Lachter " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iran's new supreme leader is 'his father on steroids,' experts warn of hardline rule ">

"Think of Mojtaba Khamenei as his father on steroids."
That is how Kasra Aarabi, director of Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps research at the advocacy group United Against Nuclear Iran, described  in comments to Fox News Digital following reports that the son of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has been selected to lead the Islamic Republic.
"Mojtaba was already operating as a 'mini supreme leader' in the Bayt-e Rahbari — his father's office and the core nucleus of power in the regime," Aarabi said.

File photo shows Mojtaba Khamenei, son of Iran's late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, attending a demonstration to mark Jerusalem day in Tehran.  (Morteza Nikoubazl/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
"His father had created the Bayt's extensive apparatus as a hidden power structure to ensure continuity should he be eliminated — and through Mojtaba's appointment, this is exactly what we will get," Aarabi said.
President Donald Trump also reacted to Mojtaba Khamenei's rise. In an interview with the , Trump said he was "not happy with" the younger Khamenei replacing his father as leader of Iran's theocratic system but declined to elaborate on how the United States might respond. "Not going to tell you," Trump said when asked about his plans regarding the new supreme leader. "Not going to tell you. I'm not happy with him."
Foundation for Defense of Democracies CEO Mark Dubowitz said Mojtaba's appointment is unlikely to moderate Iran's behavior.
"It's unlikely Mojtaba Khamenei's selection as supreme leader will change much," Dubowitz told Fox News Digital. "As President Trump said, 'he's not going to last long' — and judging by the president's track record, he means it. Israel has already put a target on Mojtaba's back. By elevating this brutal, corrupt, and incompetent figure, the regime shows contempt for its own people, which should strengthen their resolve to overthrow the Islamic Republic. 
"Under Mojtaba, Iran is likely to be as dangerous to the world as it was under his father. That's why this war must continue until the regime is stripped of its deadly capabilities," he said. 
An Iranian source with knowledge of the leadership transition told Fox News Digital that earlier speculation Mojtaba might pursue reforms now appears unlikely given the circumstances surrounding his appointment.
"Previously there were whispers suggesting that if Mojtaba were to become the leader, he might introduce reforms that would both open up the domestic political space and bring a more interactive approach to foreign policy," the source said.
"However, now this possibility seems very weak."
Mojtaba was chosen "amid disputes, controversies, and pressure from the IRGC," according to the source, meaning he "owes his appointment to their support and therefore cannot act against their wishes."

Military members of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) in western Tehran, Iran (Morteza Nikoubazl/NurPhoto via Getty Images)
Built inside Iran's security state
Mojtaba Khamenei, 56, has spent decades building influence inside the power structures surrounding Iran's supreme leader.
Born in 1969 in Mashhad, he pursued clerical studies in Tehran, Iran, after the 1979 Islamic Revolution that brought his father to prominence. Over time, however, analysts say his influence developed less through traditional clerical authority and more through .
In 2019, the United States  under Executive Order 13867. The U.S. Treasury Department said he had been "representing the supreme leader in an official capacity despite never being elected or appointed to a government position aside from work in the office of his father."
Behnam Ben Taleblu, senior director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies' Iran Program, said Mojtaba's background reflects a broader shift inside the Islamic Republic.

People hold placards with an image of Iran's new supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei with late Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, during a gathering to support Mojtaba Khamenei, amid the U.S.-Israeli conflict with Iran, in Tehran, Iran, March 9, 2026.  (Majid Asgaripour/WANA (West Asia News Agency) Via Reuters)
"Despite donning a turban, Mojtaba is the product of the ," Ben Taleblu told Fox News Digital. "Expect him to work with and through the IRGC to keep his hold on power."
Aarabi said Mojtaba has spent years consolidating influence behind the scenes.
"His past tells us he enjoys micromanaging every aspect of authority to satisfy his thirst for power," Aarabi said, describing how Mojtaba allegedly relocated IRGC command centers to his office during protests, engineered election outcomes and installed loyalists across state institutions.
Since 2019, Aarabi added, Mojtaba has also been implementing what he described as his father's effort to "purify" the regime by promoting ideological loyalists across the political system.
"Mojtaba is a deeply antisemitic, anti-American, and anti-Western ideologue," Aarabi said. "He has personally been involved in repression in Iran and terror plots abroad."

Kashmiri Shiite Muslims carry pictures of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as they march in a protest rally on the fourth day of mourning in Magam, Jammu and Kashmir, on March 4, 2026. (Faisal Khan/Anadolu/Getty Images)
Analysts see harder line ahead
Analysts say Mojtaba's rise may further strengthen the role of Iran's security institutions.
"The rise of the younger Khamenei expedites trendlines seen in Iranian politics and national security for years," Ben Taleblu said. "From one Khamenei to another, things in Iran can be expected to go from bad to worse if this regime survives."
"And like the elder Khamenei, ," he added.
Ben Taleblu warned that the regime may also escalate tensions externally as a survival strategy.
"The regime knows it is weak, but believes it can extract a price and widen a crisis in order to survive," he said.
For opposition groups inside Iran, the leadership transition signals continuity rather than reform.
"He's the son of Khamenei and they have same ideology and they same strategy and they try to continue the ," said Khalid Azizi, spokesperson for the Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran.
"So far it's very difficult to say what he will be done and is he going to have a different policy? I don't expect this."
The Iranian source who spoke with Fox News Digital said that while engagement with the United States and the West is theoretically possible in the future, the chances remain slim.

On March 1, 2026, in Sana'a, Yemen. pro-Iran protesters brandish billboards depicting the Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Hosseini Khamenei, flags of Yemen and Iran, weapons, and chant slogans at a rally held to condemn the U.S.-Israel aerial attacks on Iran and the killing of Khamenei and several military officials. (Mohammed Hamoud/Getty Images)
"As I mentioned," the source said, "this possibility is very weak."
"In short," Aarabi said, "Mojtaba is his father on steroids. He's certainly ."

<\doc>

<doc date="2026-02-28" author=" Brie Stimson " newspaper="FOXNEWS" title=" Iranians celebrate worldwide after supreme leader is killed in Israeli strikes
">

Iranians across the country could be seen and heard celebrating the   after coordinated Israeli strikes overnight.
In one video, Iranians near Karaj, Iran, outside the capital of Tehran, took to the streets, honked their horns and cheered.
In social media videos,  cheered from their apartments, playing loud music and setting off fireworks as the news spread.

In Fuladshahr, people packed the streets, waving their arms in the air, whistling, honking and cheering over the news.
In Borazjan, Iran, celebrants chanted and, in Mamasani, they waved flags and danced.

People celebrate in Madrid, Spain. (Carlos Lujan/Europa Press via Getty Images)
People also celebrated in the Iranian cities of Shiraz and Abadan, "where the people are out on the streets till the wee hours of the night in celebration of an Iran that is on the brink of finding its freedom after almost five decades," according to Lisa Daftari, editor at The Foreign Desk.

Iranian people also cheered the news in other parts of the world, such as Madrid, London, Berlin, Armenia and the United States.

People celebrated the death of Khamenei on Saturday in Berlin. (Christophe Gateau/Picture Alliance via Getty Images)
"Iranian people all over the world, from  to Tehran, are on the streets celebrating [in] sheer jubilation over the dawn of a new and free Iran," Daftari told Fox News Digital.
"Iranians poured onto the streets cheering, clapping, waving the lion and sun flag, dancing openly and singing the old national anthem. It's hard to imagine a people so starved for freedom, so desperate for justice, that they are cheering  as the price of liberation."

A woman holds up an Iranian flag as people celebrate the death of Khamenei in Los Angeles.  (Genaro Molina/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images)
In Los Angeles, home to the largest Iranian community in the U.S., hundreds came out to wave Iranian and American flags on Saturday. 
Some people also held signs bearing expressions such as, "Make Iran Great Again."

"I love America. I love everything about this country," Iranian American journalist Masih Alinejad told Fox News Saturday.
"I grew up in a country where I was brainwashed to say, 'Death to America,' the same country — how ironic — the same country that saved my life three times and is now helping my people in Iran. They're celebrating. They're celebrating out of joy.

A family celebrates while watching Fox News in Vienna, Va.  (Reuters/Nathan Howard)
"Thank you, President Trump, for taking decisive action. This is how true leadership looks like."

Los Angeles and other U.S. cities, like Boston;  and New York City held competing anti-war protests, as did cities in Europe.

<\doc>
</docx>
