<doc date="2026-03-09" author="Sam Meredith" newspaper="CNBC" title="Iran's strategic oil island thrust into the spotlight as Middle East conflict escalates">
Iran's Kharg Island, a small but strategically vital strip of land nestled in the waters of the northern Persian Gulf, has been left untouched by U.S. and Israeli forces even as the Middle East conflict enters its second week.
The coral island, which is located about 15 miles off the coast of mainland Iran, serves as the centerpiece for Iran's oil industry.
It is estimated that around 90% of the country's crude exports pass through it before tankers then travel through the Strait of Hormuz. The island is also said to have a loading capacity of roughly 7 million barrels per day.
Kharg Island's economic importance to Iran makes it particularly vulnerable to the threat of military action, although analysts say that any attempt to seize it would likely require a ground troop operation, which the U.S. appears reluctant to undertake.
An attack would also likely prompt further energy market volatility at a time when oil prices have soared to more than $100 a barrel.
Seizing the island "would cut off Iran's oil lifeline," which is essential for the regime, according to Petras Katinas, a research fellow in climate, energy and defense at RUSI, a London-based defense think tank.
"Of course, with shipping via the Strait of Hormuz now stopped, they cannot sell oil anyway, but looking ahead, seizure would give the US leverage during negotiations, no matter which regime is in power after the military operation ends," Katinas told CNBC by email.
"Yet, seizure, would require a ground troop operation, which this administration seems hesitant to undertake. At least for now," he added.
Crude futures climbed to their highest level since mid-2022 on Monday after the U.S. and Israel launched a fresh wave of strikes across Iran over the weekend.
The attacks struck several Iranian fuel sites, including oil storage depots, signaling a new phase of the war as the sprawling Middle East crisis continues into its tenth day.
International benchmark Brent crude futures with May delivery traded nearly 16% higher at $107.18 per barrel on Monday morning, paring earlier gains, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate futures with April delivery were last seen 12.5% higher at $102.1.
Fraught with risk
"If President Trump were to decide to seize this pivotal hub, it would deal a significant blow to the Iranian regime, as it would deprive them of a critical source of revenue. Such a move would be reminiscent of the U.S. intervention in Venezuela at the beginning of the year, when it effectively took control of the country's oil sector," Tamas Varga, an oil analyst at brokerage PVM, told CNBC By email.
"While it might suggest the resumption of Iranian oil exports—under U.S. supervision, of course, and only if the Strait reopens—it would at the same time remain vulnerable to drone attacks from within Iran. An eventual U.S. occupation of the island would further complicate an already complex situation," he added.
Typically, about 20% of the world's oil and gas passes through the Strait of Hormuz, but shipping traffic has all but halted through this key maritime corridor since the war started late last month.
U.S. President Donald Trump may be tempted to order U.S. forces to try to seize Kharg Island for several reasons, according to Marc Gustafson, former head of the White House Situation Room, who previously served under presidents Trump, Joe Biden and Barack Obama.
These include the opportunity for Trump to claim a "big PR win," the chance to give U.S. troops a natural barrier from mainland Iran, and the fact that it fits with the president's push to secure maximum leverage over the Iranian regime.
Gustafson, who now works as the senior director of analysis at Eurasia Group, said that any such operation would be fraught with risk, however.
An attempt to seize the island would require U.S. troops on the ground and likely see it become a multi-week target for Iranian drones, Gustafson said in a LinkedIn post last week.
He also warned it could push oil prices up even further and Tehran may even consider an act of self-sabotage to destroy the oil pipeline that feeds it.
"There is one concept or one dimension of this that no one seemingly has mentioned, which is Kharg Island," Jan van Eck, CEO of VanEck Funds, told CNBC's "Power Lunch" on March 2.
"It's where 90% of Iran's oil gets exported out of — that is a choke point. And if you think that Trump just follows the same playbook that he did in Venezuela. What did he do? He cut off their oil exports, their hard currency, and I think he is going to want that leverage point going forward," Van Eck said.
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-08" author="Aniek Bao, Holly Ellyatt" newspaper="CNBC" title="U.S. orders staff to leave Saudi Arabia as war spreads, Iran rules out immediate ceasefire">
The U.S. government on Monday ordered non-emergency government employees to leave Saudi Arabia as the war engulfing Iran widened across the Middle East. Iran also ruled out an immediate ceasefire while attacks continued.
The U.S. embassy in Riyadh cited heightened risks from armed conflict, terrorism and missile and drone attacks from Yemen and Iran. That marked the first such departure order issued by Washington in Saudi Arabia since the war began.
The Israeli military said Monday that it had begun a new wave of strikes targeting the infrastructure of the "terror regime" in central Iran.
An Iranian foreign ministry spokesman claimed Monday that the U.S. was "after Iranian oil reserves" and aimed to weaken and divide Iran, according to comments translated by Reuters.
When asked about the possibility of a ceasefire, the spokesperson said as long as attacks continue, there is "no point to talk about anything but defense and retaliation against enemies."
It followed strikes on several Iranian oil facilities Sunday, igniting fires and sending thick smoke over Tehran and the neighboring city of Karaj. The attacks appeared to be the first on the country's energy infrastructure since the war began.
Crude prices spiked above $110 per barrel Monday morning after several Middle East energy producers announced plans to cut output. G7 finance ministers are set to discuss the possible joint release of emergency oil reserves amid supply concerns, the U.K.'s Treasury and French government confirmed to CNBC on Monday.
The surge in oil price followed days of disruptions in the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's most important oil choke points. Tankers have avoided the narrow waterway after Tehran threatened to attack vessels attempting to transit the strait.
U.S. Energy Secretary Chris Wright said Sunday that traffic through the Strait would resume once Washington destroys Tehran's ability to threaten shipping.
"The grace period that the market had in place for most of last week — assuming that this thing would not get out of control and start to spread with contagion to other parts of the economy — has clearly come to an end," said Clayton Seigle, chair in energy and geopolitics at CSIS. "We're probably going to have a crisis period for longer. The market ... is kind of scrambling to catch up."
Iran's next leader 'unfortunate' pick
Iranian officials named Mojtaba Khamenei, son of the late supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as the country's new religious and political authority, consolidating control over the Iranian Revolutionary Guard and other hardline groups.
Israel warned previously that any successor to Khamenei would be a potential target, while U.S. President Donald Trump threatened that a new leader in Tehran would be short-lived if the decision was made without his approval.
Former CIA director David Petraeus said Sunday in an interview with CNN that the new leadership pick was "unfortunate," as Mojtaba was seen as a "continuation of what his father was, which is a very hardline ideological cleric."
Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated Iran's new leader on Monday and pledged Moscow's "unwavering support" for Tehran, stating, "Russia has been and will remain a reliable partner of the Islamic Republic," in comments released by the Kremlin.
Trump is also reportedly weighing deploying special forces on the ground to seize Tehran's near-bomb-grade uranium, Bloomberg reported, as officials sought to verify the location of the stockpile of highly enriched material.
Shortly after oil surged past $100 Sunday evening stateside, Trump posted on Truth Social that a gain in "short term oil prices" was a "very small price to pay" for destroying Iran's nuclear threat. "Only fools would think differently!"
Equities in Asia plunged on Monday as investors rushed to reduce risk exposure over growing concerns that the fighting may last longer than expected, while European markets fell over 2% in early trade.
Ukraine's interceptor drones
The ramping-up of hostilities comes after Tehran had earlier signaled its intention to ease tensions with neighboring countries. In a pre-recorded video released on Saturday, Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian apologized for striking Middle Eastern neighbors and said Tehran would stop firing at countries that weren't aiding the U.S.-Israeli operation.
However, Saudi Arabia said Sunday that Iranian attacks have continued. Riyadh warned that the attacks are based on "flimsy pretexts that have no basis in reality," leading to further escalation of tensions and harm relations "now and in the future."
Iran has launched swarms of its Shahed 'kamikaze' drones to overwhelm the air defense systems across the Gulf, citing the presence of U.S. military bases and regional support for American strikes. The drones have also become a regular fixture of Russia's arsenal in its years-long invasion of Ukraine.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told The New York Times that Kyiv had agreed to a U.S. request to send a team of experts and interceptor drones — far cheaper than the interceptor missiles — to protect American military bases in Jordan.
Other countries are also considering requests from Gulf nations for help in containing the attacks. Australia said it was reviewing requests from Gulf nations for defensive military support while reiterating that it would refrain from participating in offensive action against Iran.
China sent a special envoy to the Middle East last week to mediate a ceasefire. Its top diplomat Wang Yi reiterated Beijing's call for an end to the military action during a press conference Sunday, lamenting the conflict as a war that "should never have happened."
</doc>
<doc date="2026-03-08" author="Garret Downs, Azhar Sukri, Emma Graham" newspaper="CNBC" title="Iran names Ayatollah Khamenei's son, Mojtaba, as new supreme leader, Media reports">
Iran named Mojtaba Khamenei its new Supreme Leader on Sunday, the Associated Press and Reuters reported, citing Iranian state media.
Khamenei is the son of the late Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in the opening salvos of the war. He was considered a top contender for the role. The elder Khamenei had ruled Iran since 1989 until his death.
Khamenei's appointment will hand him control of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard and other hardline groups.
The Revolutionary Guard issued a statement expressing support, the Associated Press reported, and the Iran-backed Lebanese militant group Hezbollah shared a portrait of the younger Khamenei on Telegram, captioned: "Leader of the blessed Islamic revolution."
The selection ensures that hardliners remain in control of Iran's government, and is a direct affront to U.S. President Donald Trump, who has insisted that the U.S. will have a role in approving the country's next leader.
Trump has previously referred to Mojtaba Khamenei as a "lite weight."
He earlier threatened that a new leader in Tehran would be short-lived if the decision was made without his approval.
"He's going to have to get approval from us," Trump told ABC News. "If he doesn't get approval from us, he's not going to last long. We want to make sure that we don't have to go back every 10 years, when you don't have a president like me that's not going to do it."
The White House did not immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
The Israel Defense Forces, which is leading the Iran offensive with the U.S., said Sunday it would "pursue every successor and every person who seeks to appoint a successor."
"We warn all those who intend to participate in the successor selection meeting that we will not hesitate to target you either. This is a warning!" the IDF said in a post in Farsi on X.
Gulf states bombarded
Iran's neighbors in the Gulf reported more damage to infrastructure over the weekend as Iran continues to attack regional allies in retaliation for ongoing strikes by U.S. and Israeli forces.
The United Arab Emirates said it was "dealing with incoming missile and drone threats from Iran."
"UAE air defences are currently responding to incoming missile and drone threats from Iran," the country's Ministry of Defense said in a post on X.
It said its defenses were intercepting ballistic missiles while fighter jets were tackling drones and "loitering munitions."
On Saturday evening, alarms rang out across Dubai and Abu Dhabi, warning residents to "immediately seek a safe place" due to missile threats, and CNBC's team confirmed hearing a loud explosion.
A high-rise building in Dubai's Marina area, 23 Marina, was hit by falling debris. According to Dubai's Media Office, no one was injured, but authorities confirmed that "debris from an aerial interception fell onto a vehicle in the Al Barsha area, resulting in the death of a Pakistani driver."
Also on Saturday, passengers waiting for flights at Dubai International Airport were ushered into train tunnels. Iran said it had struck an air base in the United Arab Emirates.
Since the war started on Feb. 28, Iran has targeted several radar and air defenses in the Middle East — in Qatar, the UAE, Jordan, Bahrain, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia — in retaliation against U.S. and Israeli attacks, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing U.S. officials, military analysts and commercially available satellite images.
Oil tops $100 a barrel
U.S. crude oil spiked above $100 a barrel Sunday evening after major Middle East energy producers cut output because the critical Strait of Hormuz remains impassable due to the war.
West Texas Intermediate soared 18.98%, or $17.25, to $108.15 per barrel by 6:12 p.m. ET. Global benchmark Brent advanced 16.19%, or $15.01, to $107.70.
U.S. crude oil surged about 35% last week in its biggest gain in futures trading history dating back to 1983.
The last time oil prices topped $100 per barrel was after Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022.
The fighting in the Gulf has greatly disrupted the oil market due to the effective closure of the strait, which carries about 20% of global oil production. The bottleneck has left Gulf nations unable to export their oil.
Kuwait, the fifth-biggest producer in OPEC, announced precautionary cuts on Saturday to its oil production and refinery output due to "Iranian threats against safe passage of ships through the Strait of Hormuz." The state-owned Kuwait Petroleum Corporation did not detail the size of the cuts.
Output in Iraq, the second-biggest OPEC producer, has effectively collapsed. Production from its three main southern oilfields has fallen 70% to 1.3 million barrels per day, three industry officials told Reuters Sunday. Those fields produced 4.3 million bpd before the Iran war.
And the United Arab Emirates, the third-biggest producer in OPEC, said Saturday that it is "carefully managing offshore production levels to address storage requirements." The Abu Dhabi National Oil Company said its onshore operations are continuing normally.
In response to surging oil prices, the average price of gas in the U.S. has jumped to over $3.46 per gallon, according to GasBuddy, from an average of $2.94 a gallon a week earlier.
Trump and his Energy secretary, Chris Wright, sought to assure Americans that the spike in fuel prices is just a short-term problem.
"Short term oil prices, which will drop rapidly when the destruction of the Iran nuclear threat is over, is a very small price to pay for U.S.A., and World, Safety and Peace," Trump said in a post on Truth Social Sunday evening. "ONLY FOOLS WOULD THINK DIFFERENTLY!"
Wright said earlier in the day that the disruption would just last for "weeks, certainly not months."
"We believe this is a small price to pay to get to a world where energy prices will return back to where they were," Wright said in an interview on "Fox News Sunday." "Iran will finally be defanged, and now you can see more investment, more free flow of trade, less ability to threaten energy supplies."
Desalination plants attacked
Bahrain said Sunday that a drone attack struck a water desalination plant.
"Iranian aggression indiscriminately attacked civilian targets and caused material damage to a water desalination plant following a drone attack," Bahrain's Ministry of Interior said in a post on X.
In a statement to CNBC, Bahrain's electricity and water authority said the "Iranian attack on a water desalination facility has had no impact on water supplies or water network capacity."
The country said "blatant Iranian aggression" damaged a university building in the Muharraq area, injuring three people, as missile fragments fell.
Meanwhile, Iran has accused the U.S. of striking a desalination plant in its country. Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in a social media post that the U.S. "committed a blatant and desperate crime by attacking a freshwater desalination plant on Qeshm Island. Water supply in 30 villages has been impacted."
"Attacking Iran's infrastructure is a dangerous move with grave consequences," Araghchi said.
U.S. Navy Capt. Tim Hawkins, a Central Command spokesman, told MS NOW that Araghchi's claim was false.
"The Iranian regime is doing everything it can to peddle lies and deceive," Hawkins said. "This is the same terrorist regime that has attacked 12 different countries and continues to deliberately target civilian airports, hotels, and neighborhoods in those countries. U.S. forces do not target civilians – period."
Fuel depots targeted
Elsewhere, Kuwait said two fuel depots at its international airport were hit by drones, causing a "huge fire at one of them." The country's Public Institution for Social Security said its headquarters were targeted, resulting in "material damage" to the building.
Meanwhile, Israeli and U.S. attacks on Iran have continued through the weekend.
Israel said it struck several fuel storage complexes belonging to the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps. "The strike significantly deepens the damage to the military infrastructure of the Iranian terrorist regime," the Israel Defense Forces said in a post on X.
The IDF also said it attacked "key commanders in the IRGC's Quds Force's Lebanon Corps who operated in Beirut."
Arab countries condemn Iran attacks
Arab foreign ministers on Sunday strongly condemned Iran's attacks on its neighbors as a "grave threat to international peace and security."
In a communique following their virtual meeting, the ministers expressed support to Gulf states, along with Jordan and Iraq, in the "measure they take to deter and respond to these aggressions."
Read more U.S.-Iran war news
•	Oil eases after topping $110 as G7 considers emergency reserve release amid widening Middle East war
•	Why China can withstand oil's surge past $100 more easily than other countries
•	Trump says oil price surge is a 'small price to pay' for defeating Iran
•	PRO: Oil price surge could boost these Chinese stocks, Goldman says
•	Iran names Ayatollah Khamenei's son, Mojtaba, as new supreme leader: Media reports
•	Energy prices will fall when Iran's ability to attack tankers ends: Wright
•	Iran war could make affordability bigger issue in 2026 elections
•	Trump says no deal with Iran to end war without 'unconditional surrender'
•	How Iran and Venezuela strikes transform the Trump-Xi trade talks
•	Global week ahead: Diplomacy in ruins as G7 meets on Iran
•	China says 'thorough preparations' needed as Trump-Xi meeting hangs in the balance amid Iran war
•	Will Iran war fallout end the bull market? When investors really need to worry
View More
The ministers called for Iran to immediately stop its attacks and cease "provocative acts or threats to neighboring countries." They urged the U.N. Security Council to condemn Iran and force it to "immediately and unconditionally halt its attacks" on Arab countries.
The ministers also voiced support to Lebanese government in its efforts to disarm Hezbollah, and urged the international community to pressure Israel to immediately cease its attacks on Lebanon.
The communique didn't mention U.S. and Israeli strikes, which triggered the war.
More U.S. service member casualties
The U.S. Central Command reported in a post on X that another U.S. service member has died in action in the war, bringing the total number killed to eight.
The New York City Police Department said in a statement on X that Police Officer Sorffly Davius died as a result of a medical episode while deployed to Kuwait in support of "Operation Epic Fury."
On Saturday, Trump joined grieving families at Dover Air Force Base, Delaware, for the dignified transfer of six U.S. soldiers killed in the war in the Middle East.
The dignified transfer, a ritual that returns the remains of U.S. service members killed in action, is considered one of the most somber duties of any commander in chief.
"It's a very sad day," Trump told reporters on Air Force One as he returned to Florida later that day, saying that he was "glad we paid our respects."

Thus far, more than 1,850 people have died since the start of the conflict. At least 1,330 Iranian civilians have died and more than 100,000 Iranians have been displaced due to the conflict.
In Lebanon, 394 have been killed; 15 people have died in Israel; Kuwait has reported 11 dead; 4 people have died in the UAE; 3 have died in Oman; 2 have died in Saudi Arabia; and 1 person has been reported killed in Bahrain, according to figures compiled by MS NOW.
— CNBC's Spencer Kimball, Terri Cullen and The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report
</doc>

